.TH  "apcupsd_selinux"  "8"  "apcupsd" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "apcupsd SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
apcupsd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the apcupsd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the apcupsd processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux apcupsd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their apcupsd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for apcupsd:


.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the apcupsd_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/sbin/apcupsd, /usr/sbin/apcupsd

.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the apcupsd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as apcupsd lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as apcupsd log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/log/apcupsd\.status.*, /var/log/apcupsd\.events.*

.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_tmp_t type, if you want to store apcupsd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as apcupsd unit content.


.EX
.PP
.B apcupsd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the apcupsd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the apcupsd files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux apcupsd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their apcupsd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for apcupsd:

.EX
.TP 5
.B apcupsd_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 3551
.EE
udp 3551
.EE
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux apcupsd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their apcupsd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for apcupsd:

.EX
.B apcupsd_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux user type apcupsd_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B apcupsd_lock_t

	/var/lock/subsys/apcupsd
.br

.br
.B apcupsd_log_t

	/var/log/apcupsd\.events.*
.br
	/var/log/apcupsd\.status.*
.br

.br
.B apcupsd_tmp_t


.br
.B apcupsd_var_run_t

	/var/run/apcupsd\.pid
.br

.br
.B etc_runtime_t

	/[^/]+
.br
	/etc/mtab.*
.br
	/etc/blkid(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/nologin.*
.br
	/etc/\.fstab\.hal\..+
.br
	/halt
.br
	/fastboot
.br
	/poweroff
.br
	/etc/cmtab
.br
	/forcefsck
.br
	/\.autofsck
.br
	/\.suspended
.br
	/fsckoptions
.br
	/\.autorelabel
.br
	/etc/securetty
.br
	/etc/nohotplug
.br
	/etc/killpower
.br
	/etc/ioctl\.save
.br
	/etc/fstab\.REVOKE
.br
	/etc/network/ifstate
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/hwconf
.br
	/etc/ptal/ptal-printd-like
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/iptables\.save
.br
	/etc/xorg\.conf\.d/00-system-setup-keyboard\.conf
.br
	/etc/X11/xorg\.conf\.d/00-system-setup-keyboard\.conf
.br

.br
.B initrc_var_run_t

	/var/run/utmp
.br
	/var/run/random-seed
.br
	/var/run/runlevel\.dir
.br
	/var/run/setmixer_flag
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was auto-generated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), apcupsd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
