.TH  "bitlbee_selinux"  "8"  "bitlbee" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "bitlbee Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
bitlbee_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the bitlbee processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the bitlbee processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux bitlbee policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their bitlbee processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for bitlbee:


.EX
.B bitlbee_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_conf_t context, if you want to treat the files as bitlbee configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
Path: 
/etc/bitlbee(/.*)?

.EX
.B bitlbee_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the bitlbee_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/bitlbee, /usr/bin/bip

.EX
.B bitlbee_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the bitlbee_initrc_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/bitlbee

.EX
.B bitlbee_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as bitlbee log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/log/bip(/.*)?

.EX
.B bitlbee_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_tmp_t context, if you want to store bitlbee temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B bitlbee_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_var_run_t context, if you want to store the bitlbee files under the /run directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/run/bitlbee\.pid, /var/run/bip(/.*)?, /var/run/bitlbee\.sock

.EX
.B bitlbee_var_t 
.EE

- Set files with the bitlbee_var_t context, if you want to store the bit files under the /var directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/lib/bitlbee(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), bitlbee(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
