.TH  "chrome_selinux"  "8"  "chrome" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "chrome SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
chrome_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the chrome processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the chrome processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux chrome policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their chrome processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for chrome:


.EX
.B chrome_sandbox_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the chrome_sandbox_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the chrome_sandbox_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/lib/chromium-browser/chrome-sandbox, /opt/google/chrome/chrome-sandbox

.EX
.B chrome_sandbox_nacl_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the chrome_sandbox_nacl_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the chrome_sandbox_nacl_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/lib/chromium-browser/nacl_helper_bootstrap, /opt/google/chrome/nacl_helper_bootstrap

.EX
.B chrome_sandbox_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the chrome_sandbox_tmp_t context, if you want to store chrome sandbox temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B chrome_sandbox_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the chrome_sandbox_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store chrome sandbox files on a tmpfs file system.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  chrome policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run chrome with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow unconfined users to transition to the chrome sandbox domains when running chrome-sandbo, you must turn on the unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), chrome(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)