.TH  "cmirrord_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "cmirrord Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
cmirrord_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the cmirrord processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the cmirrord processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux cmirrord policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their cmirrord processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for cmirrord:


.EX
.B cmirrord_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cmirrord_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the cmirrord_t domain.


.EX
.B cmirrord_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cmirrord_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the cmirrord_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.B cmirrord_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cmirrord_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store cmirrord files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B cmirrord_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cmirrord_var_run_t context, if you want to store the cmirrord files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), cmirrord(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)