.TH  "colord_selinux"  "8"  "colord" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "colord SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
colord_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the colord processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the colord processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux colord policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their colord processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for colord:


.EX
.B colord_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the colord_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the colord_t domain.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B colord_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the colord_tmp_t type, if you want to store colord temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B colord_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the colord_tmpfs_t type, if you want to store colord files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B colord_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the colord_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the colord files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/lib/color(/.*)?, /var/lib/colord(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), colord(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
