.TH  "comsat_selinux"  "8"  "comsat" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "comsat SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
comsat_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the comsat processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the comsat processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux comsat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their comsat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for comsat:


.EX
.B comsat_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the comsat_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the comsat_t domain.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B comsat_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the comsat_tmp_t type, if you want to store comsat temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B comsat_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the comsat_var_run_t type, if you want to store the comsat files under the /run directory.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux comsat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their comsat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for comsat:
.EX

.B comsat_port_t 
.EE

.EX
Default Defined Ports:

.B udp 512
.EE
.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), comsat(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
