.TH  "courier_selinux"  "8"  "courier" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "courier SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
courier_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the courier processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the courier processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux courier policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their courier processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for courier:


.EX
.PP
.B courier_authdaemon_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_authdaemon_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the courier_authdaemon_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B courier_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_etc_t type, if you want to store courier files in the /etc directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/courier/rootcerts(/.*)?, /etc/courier(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B courier_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the courier_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/courierlogger, /usr/lib/courier/courier/.*, /usr/sbin/courierldapaliasd

.EX
.PP
.B courier_pcp_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_pcp_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the courier_pcp_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B courier_pop_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_pop_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the courier_pop_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/courier/imapd, /usr/lib/courier/courier/courierpop.*, /usr/lib/courier/pop3d, /usr/lib/courier/courier/imaplogin, /usr/bin/imapd

.EX
.PP
.B courier_spool_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_spool_t type, if you want to store the courier files under the /var/spool directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/spool/authdaemon(/.*)?, /var/spool/courier(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B courier_sqwebmail_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_sqwebmail_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the courier_sqwebmail_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B courier_tcpd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_tcpd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the courier_tcpd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B courier_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the courier files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B courier_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the courier_var_run_t type, if you want to store the courier files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux courier policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their courier processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for courier:

.EX
.B courier_sqwebmail_t, courier_tcpd_t, courier_authdaemon_t, courier_pcp_t, courier_pop_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permississive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), courier(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
