.TH  "cups_selinux"  "8"  "cups" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "cups SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
cups_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the cups processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the cups processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux cups policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their cups processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for cups:


.EX
.PP
.B cups_pdf_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cups_pdf_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cups_pdf_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B cups_pdf_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cups_pdf_tmp_t type, if you want to store cups pdf temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_config_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_config_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cupsd_config_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/printconf-backend, /usr/sbin/hal_lpadmin, /usr/lib/udev/udev-configure-printer, /usr/libexec/cups-pk-helper-mechanism, /usr/libexec/hal_lpadmin, /lib/udev/udev-configure-printer, /usr/bin/cups-config-daemon

.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_config_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_config_var_run_t type, if you want to store the cupsd config files under the /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_etc_t type, if you want to store cupsd files in the /etc directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/share/cups(/.*)?, /etc/cups(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cupsd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cupsd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_interface_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_interface_t type, if you want to treat the files as cupsd interface data.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as cupsd lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as cupsd log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/log/cups(/.*)?, /usr/local/Brother/fax/.*\.log, /var/log/turboprint.*

.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_lpd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_lpd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cupsd_lpd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_lpd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_lpd_tmp_t type, if you want to store cupsd lpd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_lpd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_lpd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the cupsd lpd files under the /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_rw_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_rw_etc_t type, if you want to store cupsd rw files in the /etc directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/cups/lpoptions.*, /usr/local/linuxprinter/ppd(/.*)?, /etc/cups/subscriptions.*, /usr/local/Brother/(.*/)?inf(/.*)?, /etc/cups/classes\.conf.*, /usr/lib/bjlib(/.*)?, /etc/cups/ppd(/.*)?, /opt/gutenprint/ppds(/.*)?, /etc/printcap.*, /etc/alchemist/namespace/printconf(/.*)?, /usr/local/Printer/(.*/)?inf(/.*)?, /var/lib/cups/certs, /etc/cups/ppds\.dat, /etc/cups/certs, /etc/cups/certs/.*, /etc/cups/printers\.conf.*, /var/lib/cups/certs/.*, /var/cache/foomatic(/.*)?, /var/cache/alchemist/printconf.*, /etc/cups/cupsd\.conf.*, /var/cache/cups(/.*)?, /usr/share/foomatic/db/oldprinterids

.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_tmp_t type, if you want to store cupsd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B cupsd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cupsd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the cupsd files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/ccpd(/.*)?, /var/ekpd(/.*)?, /var/turboprint(/.*)?, /var/run/cups(/.*)?

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux cups policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their cups processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for cups:

.EX
.B cupsd_t, cupsd_config_t, cupsd_lpd_t, cups_pdf_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permississive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), cups(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
