.TH  "cyrus_selinux"  "8"  "cyrus" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "cyrus SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
cyrus_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the cyrus processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the cyrus processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux cyrus policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their cyrus processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for cyrus:


.EX
.B cyrus_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cyrus_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cyrus_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/lib/cyrus-imapd/cyrus-master, /usr/lib/cyrus/master
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B cyrus_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cyrus_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the cyrus_initrc_t domain.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B cyrus_keytab_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cyrus_keytab_t type, if you want to treat the files as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.B cyrus_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cyrus_tmp_t type, if you want to store cyrus temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B cyrus_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cyrus_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the cyrus files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/imap(/.*)?, /var/lib/imap(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B cyrus_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the cyrus_var_run_t type, if you want to store the cyrus files under the /run directory.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), cyrus(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
