.TH  "dcc_selinux"  "8"  "dcc" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "dcc SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
dcc_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the dcc processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the dcc processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a sssd serve for the dccifd_t, dccm_t, dcc_client_t, dcc_dbclean_t, dccd_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the dccifd_t, dccm_t, dcc_client_t, dcc_dbclean_t, dccd_t, you must turn on the allow_kerberos boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P allow_kerberos 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NI for the dccifd_t, dccm_t, dcc_client_t, dcc_dbclean_t, dccd_t, you must turn on the allow_ypbind boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P allow_ypbind 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux dcc policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their dcc processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for dcc:


.EX
.PP
.B dcc_client_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_client_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the dcc_client_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B dcc_client_map_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_client_map_t type, if you want to treat the files as dcc client map data.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/lib/dcc/map, /etc/dcc/map, /var/run/dcc/map, /var/dcc/map

.EX
.PP
.B dcc_client_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_client_tmp_t type, if you want to store dcc client temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B dcc_dbclean_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_dbclean_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the dcc_dbclean_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B dcc_dbclean_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_dbclean_tmp_t type, if you want to store dcc dbclean temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B dcc_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_var_run_t type, if you want to store the dcc files under the /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B dcc_var_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dcc_var_t type, if you want to store the  files under the /var directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/dcc(/.*)?, /var/dcc(/.*)?, /var/lib/dcc(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B dccd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the dccd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B dccd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccd_tmp_t type, if you want to store dccd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B dccd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the dccd files under the /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B dccifd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccifd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the dccifd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B dccifd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccifd_tmp_t type, if you want to store dccifd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B dccifd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccifd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the dccifd files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/dcc/dccifd, /var/run/dcc/dccifd

.EX
.PP
.B dccm_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccm_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the dccm_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B dccm_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccm_tmp_t type, if you want to store dccm temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B dccm_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dccm_var_run_t type, if you want to store the dccm files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux dcc policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their dcc processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for dcc:

.EX
.TP 5
.B dcc_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
udp 6276,6277
.EE

.EX
.TP 5
.B dccm_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 5679
.EE
udp 5679
.EE
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux dcc policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their dcc processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for dcc:

.EX
.B dccm_t, dcc_client_t, dcc_dbclean_t, dccifd_t, dccd_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), dcc(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
