.TH  "dlm_selinux"  "8"  "16 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "dlm Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
dlm_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the dlm processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the dlm processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux dlm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their dlm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for dlm:


.EX
.B dlm_controld_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dlm_controld_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the dlm_controld_t domain.


.EX
.B dlm_controld_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dlm_controld_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store dlm controld files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B dlm_controld_var_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dlm_controld_var_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as dlm controld var log data, usually stored in /var/log.


.EX
.B dlm_controld_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the dlm_controld_var_run_t context, if you want to store the dlm controld files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  dlm policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run dlm with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow ABRT to run in abrt_handle_event_t domain to handle ABRT event scripts, you must turn on the abrt_handle_event boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P abrt_handle_event 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unprivileged users to execute DDL statement, you must turn on the sepgsql_enable_users_ddl boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sepgsql_enable_users_ddl 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), dlm(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)