.TH  "entropyd_selinux"  "8"  "entropyd" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "entropyd SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
entropyd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the entropyd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the entropyd processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  entropyd policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run entropyd with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow the use of the audio devices as the source for the entropy feed, you must turn on the entropyd_use_audio boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P entropyd_use_audio 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux entropyd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their entropyd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for entropyd:


.EX
.B entropyd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the entropyd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the entropyd_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/audio-entropyd, /usr/sbin/haveged
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B entropyd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the entropyd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the entropyd files under the /run directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/run/audio-entropyd\.pid, /var/run/haveged\.pid
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), entropyd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)