.TH  "fenced_selinux"  "8"  "fenced" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "fenced Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
fenced_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the fenced processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the fenced processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux fenced policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their fenced processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for fenced:


.EX
.B fenced_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the fenced_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the fenced_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/fence_node, /usr/sbin/fence_tool, /usr/sbin/fenced

.EX
.B fenced_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the fenced_lock_t context, if you want to treat the files as fenced lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory

.br
Path: 
/var/lock/fence_manual\.lock

.EX
.B fenced_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the fenced_tmp_t context, if you want to store fenced temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B fenced_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the fenced_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store fenced files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B fenced_var_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the fenced_var_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as fenced var log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/log/cluster/fenced\.log.*

.EX
.B fenced_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the fenced_var_run_t context, if you want to store the fenced files under the /run directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/run/cluster/fenced_override, /var/run/cluster/fence_scsi.*, /var/run/fenced\.pid
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  fenced policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run fenced with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow fenced domain to execute ssh, you must turn on the fenced_can_ssh boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fenced_can_ssh 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow fenced domain to connect to the network using TCP, you must turn on the fenced_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fenced_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), fenced(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)