.TH  "foghorn_selinux"  "8"  "16 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "foghorn Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
foghorn_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the foghorn processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the foghorn processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux foghorn policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their foghorn processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for foghorn:


.EX
.B foghorn_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the foghorn_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the foghorn_t domain.


.EX
.B foghorn_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the foghorn_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store foghorn files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B foghorn_var_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the foghorn_var_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as foghorn var log data, usually stored in /var/log.


.EX
.B foghorn_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the foghorn_var_run_t context, if you want to store the foghorn files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), foghorn(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)