.TH  "gpg_agent_selinux"  "8"  "gpg_agent" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "gpg_agent SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
gpg_agent_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the gpg_agent processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the gpg_agent processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The gpg_agent processes execute with the gpg_agent_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier. 

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep gpg_agent_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The gpg_agent_t SELinux type can be entered via the "gpg_agent_exec_t" file type.  The default entrypoint paths for the gpg_agent_t domain are the following:"

/usr/bin/gpg-agent
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux gpg_agent policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their gpg_agent processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for gpg_agent:

.EX
.B gpg_agent_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  gpg_agent policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run gpg_agent with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow usage of the gpg-agent --write-env-file option. This also allows gpg-agent to manage user files, you must turn on the gpg_agent_env_file boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gpg_agent_env_file 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux gpg_agent policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their gpg_agent processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for gpg_agent:


.EX
.PP
.B gpg_agent_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpg_agent_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the gpg_agent_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B gpg_agent_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpg_agent_tmp_t type, if you want to store gpg agent temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type gpg_agent_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B gpg_agent_tmp_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br

.br
.B gpg_secret_t

	/root/\.gnupg(/.+)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gnupg(/.+)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.gnupg(/.+)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.gnupg(/.+)?
.br

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was auto-generated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), gpg_agent(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8), gpg_selinux(8), gpg_selinux(8), gpg_helper_selinux(8)