.TH  "gpm_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "gpm Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
gpm_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the gpm processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the gpm processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux gpm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their gpm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for gpm:


.EX
.B gpm_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpm_conf_t context, if you want to treat the files as gpm configuration data.


.EX
.B gpm_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpm_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the gpm_t domain.


.EX
.B gpm_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpm_tmp_t context, if you want to store gpm temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B gpm_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpm_var_run_t context, if you want to store the gpm files under the /run directory.


.EX
.B gpmctl_t 
.EE

- Set files with the gpmctl_t context, if you want to treat the files as gpmctl data.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  gpm policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run gpm with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow usage of the gpg-agent --write-env-file option. This also allows gpg-agent to manage user files, you must turn on the gpg_agent_env_file boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gpg_agent_env_file 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to run gpg in gpg-web domai, you must turn on the httpd_use_gpg boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_gpg 1
.EE

.SH SHARING FILES
If you want to share files with multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a file context of public_content_t and public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of the above domains to read the content.  If you want a particular domain to write to the public_content_rw_t domain, you must set the appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow gpm servers to read the /var/gpm directory by adding the public_content_t file type to the directory and by restoring the file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/gpm(/.*)?"
.TP
.B
restorecon -F -R -v /var/gpm
.pp
.TP
Allow gpm servers to read and write /var/tmp/incoming by adding the public_content_rw_t type to the directory and by restoring the file type.  This also requires the allow_gpmd_anon_write boolean to be set.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/gpm/incoming(/.*)?"
.TP
.B
restorecon -F -R -v /var/gpm/incoming


.PP
If you want to allow gpg web domain to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the gpg_web_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gpg_web_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), gpm(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)