.TH  "irssi_selinux"  "8"  "irssi" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "irssi SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
irssi_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the irssi processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the irssi processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  irssi policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run irssi with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow the Irssi IRC Client to connect to any port, and to bind to any unreserved port, you must turn on the irssi_use_full_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P irssi_use_full_network 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux irssi policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their irssi processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for irssi:


.EX
.B irssi_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the irssi_etc_t type, if you want to store irssi files in the /etc directories.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B irssi_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the irssi_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the irssi_t domain.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B irssi_home_t 
.EE

- Set files with the irssi_home_t type, if you want to store irssi files in the users home directory.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), irssi(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)