.TH  "krb5kdc_selinux"  "8"  "krb5kdc" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "krb5kdc SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
krb5kdc_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the krb5kdc processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the krb5kdc processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux krb5kdc policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their krb5kdc processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for krb5kdc:


.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_conf_t type, if you want to treat the files as krb5kdc configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/kerberos/krb5kdc(/.*)?, /etc/krb5kdc(/.*)?, /usr/local/var/krb5kdc(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the krb5kdc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as krb5kdc lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/kerberos/krb5kdc/principal.*\.ok, /var/kerberos/krb5kdc/from_master.*

.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as krb5kdc log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_principal_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_principal_t type, if you want to treat the files as krb5kdc principal data.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/local/var/krb5kdc/principal.*, /etc/krb5kdc/principal.*, /var/kerberos/krb5kdc/principal.*

.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_tmp_t type, if you want to store krb5kdc temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B krb5kdc_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the krb5kdc_var_run_t type, if you want to store the krb5kdc files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux krb5kdc policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their krb5kdc processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for krb5kdc:

.EX
.B krb5kdc_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permississive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), krb5kdc(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
