.TH  "l2tpd_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "l2tpd Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
l2tpd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the l2tpd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the l2tpd processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux l2tpd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their l2tpd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for l2tpd:


.EX
.B l2tpd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the l2tpd_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the l2tpd_t domain.


.EX
.B l2tpd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the l2tpd_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the l2tpd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.B l2tpd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the l2tpd_tmp_t context, if you want to store l2tpd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B l2tpd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the l2tpd_var_run_t context, if you want to store the l2tpd files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), l2tpd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)