.TH  "libra_selinux"  "8"  "libra" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "libra SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
libra_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the libra processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the libra processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd serve for the libra_t, libra_mail_t, libra_net_t, libra_min_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the libra_t, libra_mail_t, libra_net_t, libra_min_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux libra policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their libra processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for libra:


.EX
.PP
.B libra_cgroup_read_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_cgroup_read_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the libra_cgroup_read_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the libra_initrc_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/bin/rhc-restorer, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/mcollective, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/libra

.EX
.PP
.B libra_initrc_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_initrc_tmp_t type, if you want to store libra initrc temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as libra log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_mail_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_mail_tmp_t type, if you want to store libra mail temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_private_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_private_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as libra private content.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_rw_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_rw_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as libra rw content.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_tmp_t type, if you want to store libra temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the libra files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B libra_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the libra_var_run_t type, if you want to store the libra files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux libra policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their libra processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for libra:

.EX
.TP 5
.B libra_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux libra policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their libra processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for libra:

.EX
.B libra_t, libra_initrc_t, libra_mail_t, libra_net_app_t, libra_min_app_t, libra_app_t, libra_min_t, libra_net_t, libra_cgroup_read_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), libra(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
