.TH  "load_selinux"  "8"  "load" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "load SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
load_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the load processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"




.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  load policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run load with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to prevent all confined domains from loading policy, setting enforcing mode, and changing boolean values.  Set this to true and you have to reboot to set it bac, you must turn on the secure_mode_policyload boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P secure_mode_policyload 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the graphical login program to execute bootloade, you must turn on the xdm_exec_bootloader boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_exec_bootloader 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to have the kernel load module, you must turn on the domain_kernel_load_modules boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modules 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux load policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their load processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for load:


.EX
.PP
.B load_policy_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the load_policy_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the load_policy_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/load_policy, /sbin/load_policy

.EX
.PP
.B loadkeys_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the loadkeys_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the loadkeys_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/bin/unikeys, /usr/bin/unikeys, /bin/loadkeys, /usr/bin/loadkeys

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux load policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their load processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for load:

.EX
.B loadkeys_t, load_policy_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), load(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)