.TH  "lpr_selinux"  "8"  "lpr" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "lpr SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
lpr_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the lpr processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the lpr processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux lpr policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their lpr processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for lpr:


.EX
.B lpr_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the lpr_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the lpr_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/accept, /opt/gutenprint/s?bin(/.*)?, /usr/bin/cancel(\.cups)?, /usr/bin/lp(\.cups)?, /usr/bin/lpstat(\.cups)?, /usr/sbin/lpc(\.cups)?, /usr/local/linuxprinter/bin/l?lpr, /usr/bin/lpoptions, /usr/bin/lpq(\.cups)?, /usr/sbin/lpadmin, /usr/sbin/lpinfo, /usr/bin/lpr(\.cups)?, /usr/sbin/lpmove, /usr/bin/lprm(\.cups)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B lpr_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the lpr_tmp_t type, if you want to store lpr temporary files in the /tmp directories.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), lpr(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
