.TH  "lvm_selinux"  "8"  "13-01-16" "lvm" "SELinux Policy documentation for lvm"
.SH "NAME"
lvm_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the lvm processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the lvm processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The lvm processes execute with the lvm_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep lvm_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The lvm_t SELinux type can be entered via the \fBlvm_exec_t\fP file type.

The default entrypoint paths for the lvm_t domain are the following:

/lib/lvm-10/.*, /lib/lvm-200/.*, /usr/lib/lvm-10/.*, /usr/lib/lvm-200/.*, /usr/lib/systemd/system-generators/lvm2.*, /sbin/lvm, /sbin/lvs, /sbin/pvs, /sbin/vgs, /sbin/vgck, /sbin/dmraid, /sbin/kpartx, /sbin/lvmsar, /sbin/lvscan, /sbin/pvdata, /sbin/pvmove, /sbin/pvscan, /sbin/vgscan, /sbin/dmsetup, /sbin/e2fsadm, /sbin/lvmetad, /sbin/lvmsadc, /sbin/vgmerge, /sbin/vgsplit, /usr/sbin/lvm, /usr/sbin/lvs, /usr/sbin/pvs, /usr/sbin/vgs, /sbin/lvchange, /sbin/lvcreate, /sbin/lvextend, /sbin/lvreduce, /sbin/lvremove, /sbin/lvrename, /sbin/lvresize, /sbin/pvchange, /sbin/pvcreate, /sbin/pvremove, /sbin/vgchange, /sbin/vgcreate, /sbin/vgexport, /sbin/vgextend, /sbin/vgimport, /sbin/vgreduce, /sbin/vgremove, /sbin/vgrename, /usr/sbin/vgck, /sbin/lvdisplay, /sbin/lvmchange, /sbin/pvdisplay, /sbin/vgdisplay, /sbin/vgmknodes, /sbin/vgwrapper, /sbin/cryptsetup, /sbin/lvm\.static, /sbin/multipathd, /usr/sbin/dmraid, /usr/sbin/kpartx, /usr/sbin/lvmsar, /usr/sbin/lvscan, /usr/sbin/pvdata, /usr/sbin/pvmove, /usr/sbin/pvscan, /usr/sbin/vgscan, /sbin/mount\.crypt, /sbin/lvmdiskscan, /sbin/vgcfgbackup, /usr/sbin/dmsetup, /usr/sbin/e2fsadm, /usr/sbin/lvmetad, /usr/sbin/lvmsadc, /usr/sbin/vgmerge, /usr/sbin/vgsplit, /sbin/vgcfgrestore, /usr/sbin/dmeventd, /usr/sbin/lvchange, /usr/sbin/lvcreate, /usr/sbin/lvextend, /usr/sbin/lvreduce, /usr/sbin/lvremove, /usr/sbin/lvrename, /usr/sbin/lvresize, /usr/sbin/pvchange, /usr/sbin/pvcreate, /usr/sbin/pvremove, /usr/sbin/vgchange, /usr/sbin/vgcreate, /usr/sbin/vgexport, /usr/sbin/vgextend, /usr/sbin/vgimport, /usr/sbin/vgreduce, /usr/sbin/vgremove, /usr/sbin/vgrename, /sbin/lvmiopversion, /sbin/vgscan\.static, /usr/sbin/lvdisplay, /usr/sbin/lvmchange, /usr/sbin/pvdisplay, /usr/sbin/vgdisplay, /usr/sbin/vgmknodes, /usr/sbin/vgwrapper, /sbin/dmsetup\.static, /usr/sbin/cryptsetup, /usr/sbin/lvm\.static, /usr/sbin/multipathd, /sbin/vgchange\.static, /usr/sbin/lvmdiskscan, /usr/sbin/mount\.crypt, /usr/sbin/vgcfgbackup, /sbin/multipath\.static, /usr/sbin/vgcfgrestore, /usr/sbin/lvmiopversion, /usr/sbin/vgscan\.static, /usr/sbin/dmsetup\.static, /usr/sbin/vgchange\.static, /usr/sbin/multipath\.static, /lib/udev/udisks-lvm-pv-export, /usr/lib/udev/udisks-lvm-pv-export, /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-cryptsetup
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux lvm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their lvm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for lvm:

.EX
.B lvm_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a lvm_t
can be used to make the process type lvm_t permissive. SELinux does not deny access to permissive process types, but the AVC (SELinux denials) messages are still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  lvm policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run lvm with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow all daemons the ability to read/write terminals, you must turn on the daemons_use_tty boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sysadm to debug or ptrace all processes, you must turn on the deny_ptrace boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on the domain_fd_use boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to have the kernel load modules, you must turn on the domain_kernel_load_modules boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modules 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to execute in fips_mode, you must turn on the fips_mode boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to enable reading of urandom for all domains, you must turn on the global_ssp boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type lvm_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B device_t

	/dev/.*
.br
	/lib/udev/devices(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/udev/devices(/.*)?
.br
	/dev
.br
	/etc/udev/devices
.br
	/var/named/chroot/dev
.br
	/var/spool/postfix/dev
.br

.br
.B lvm_lock_t

	/etc/lvm/lock(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lock/lvm(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B lvm_metadata_t

	/etc/lvmtab(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/lvmtab\.d(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/lvm/cache(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/multipath(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/lvm/backup(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/lvm/archive(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/multipathd(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/lvm/\.cache
.br

.br
.B lvm_tmp_t


.br
.B lvm_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/multipath(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B lvm_var_run_t

	/var/run/lvm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/dmevent.*
.br
	/var/run/multipathd\.sock
.br

.br
.B rpm_script_tmp_t


.br
.B security_t

	/selinux
.br

.br
.B sysfs_t

	/sys(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B virt_image_type

	all virtual image files
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux lvm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their lvm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines the file context types for the lvm, if you wanted to
store files with these types in a diffent paths, you need to execute the semanage command to sepecify alternate labeling and then use restorecon to put the labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t lvm_etc_t '/srv/lvm/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/mylvm_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions to specify labels that match multiple files.

.I The following file types are defined for lvm:


.EX
.PP
.B lvm_etc_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_etc_t type, if you want to store lvm files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B lvm_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the lvm_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/lib/lvm-10/.*, /lib/lvm-200/.*, /usr/lib/lvm-10/.*, /usr/lib/lvm-200/.*, /usr/lib/systemd/system-generators/lvm2.*, /sbin/lvm, /sbin/lvs, /sbin/pvs, /sbin/vgs, /sbin/vgck, /sbin/dmraid, /sbin/kpartx, /sbin/lvmsar, /sbin/lvscan, /sbin/pvdata, /sbin/pvmove, /sbin/pvscan, /sbin/vgscan, /sbin/dmsetup, /sbin/e2fsadm, /sbin/lvmetad, /sbin/lvmsadc, /sbin/vgmerge, /sbin/vgsplit, /usr/sbin/lvm, /usr/sbin/lvs, /usr/sbin/pvs, /usr/sbin/vgs, /sbin/lvchange, /sbin/lvcreate, /sbin/lvextend, /sbin/lvreduce, /sbin/lvremove, /sbin/lvrename, /sbin/lvresize, /sbin/pvchange, /sbin/pvcreate, /sbin/pvremove, /sbin/vgchange, /sbin/vgcreate, /sbin/vgexport, /sbin/vgextend, /sbin/vgimport, /sbin/vgreduce, /sbin/vgremove, /sbin/vgrename, /usr/sbin/vgck, /sbin/lvdisplay, /sbin/lvmchange, /sbin/pvdisplay, /sbin/vgdisplay, /sbin/vgmknodes, /sbin/vgwrapper, /sbin/cryptsetup, /sbin/lvm\.static, /sbin/multipathd, /usr/sbin/dmraid, /usr/sbin/kpartx, /usr/sbin/lvmsar, /usr/sbin/lvscan, /usr/sbin/pvdata, /usr/sbin/pvmove, /usr/sbin/pvscan, /usr/sbin/vgscan, /sbin/mount\.crypt, /sbin/lvmdiskscan, /sbin/vgcfgbackup, /usr/sbin/dmsetup, /usr/sbin/e2fsadm, /usr/sbin/lvmetad, /usr/sbin/lvmsadc, /usr/sbin/vgmerge, /usr/sbin/vgsplit, /sbin/vgcfgrestore, /usr/sbin/dmeventd, /usr/sbin/lvchange, /usr/sbin/lvcreate, /usr/sbin/lvextend, /usr/sbin/lvreduce, /usr/sbin/lvremove, /usr/sbin/lvrename, /usr/sbin/lvresize, /usr/sbin/pvchange, /usr/sbin/pvcreate, /usr/sbin/pvremove, /usr/sbin/vgchange, /usr/sbin/vgcreate, /usr/sbin/vgexport, /usr/sbin/vgextend, /usr/sbin/vgimport, /usr/sbin/vgreduce, /usr/sbin/vgremove, /usr/sbin/vgrename, /sbin/lvmiopversion, /sbin/vgscan\.static, /usr/sbin/lvdisplay, /usr/sbin/lvmchange, /usr/sbin/pvdisplay, /usr/sbin/vgdisplay, /usr/sbin/vgmknodes, /usr/sbin/vgwrapper, /sbin/dmsetup\.static, /usr/sbin/cryptsetup, /usr/sbin/lvm\.static, /usr/sbin/multipathd, /sbin/vgchange\.static, /usr/sbin/lvmdiskscan, /usr/sbin/mount\.crypt, /usr/sbin/vgcfgbackup, /sbin/multipath\.static, /usr/sbin/vgcfgrestore, /usr/sbin/lvmiopversion, /usr/sbin/vgscan\.static, /usr/sbin/dmsetup\.static, /usr/sbin/vgchange\.static, /usr/sbin/multipath\.static, /lib/udev/udisks-lvm-pv-export, /usr/lib/udev/udisks-lvm-pv-export, /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-cryptsetup

.EX
.PP
.B lvm_lock_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as lvm lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/lvm/lock(/.*)?, /var/lock/lvm(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B lvm_metadata_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_metadata_t type, if you want to treat the files as lvm metadata data.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/lvmtab(/.*)?, /etc/lvmtab\.d(/.*)?, /etc/lvm/cache(/.*)?, /etc/multipath(/.*)?, /etc/lvm/backup(/.*)?, /etc/lvm/archive(/.*)?, /var/cache/multipathd(/.*)?, /etc/lvm/\.cache

.EX
.PP
.B lvm_tmp_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_tmp_t type, if you want to store lvm temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B lvm_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the lvm files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B lvm_var_run_t
.EE

- Set files with the lvm_var_run_t type, if you want to store the lvm files under the /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/run/lvm(/.*)?, /var/run/dmevent.*, /var/run/multipathd\.sock

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage"
by Dan Walsh.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), lvm(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8)