.TH  "mailman_selinux"  "8"  "mailman" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "mailman SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
mailman_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the mailman processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the mailman processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a sssd serve for the mailman_mail_t, mailman_cgi_t, mailman_queue_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the mailman_mail_t, mailman_cgi_t, mailman_queue_t, you must turn on the allow_kerberos boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P allow_kerberos 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NI for the mailman_mail_t, mailman_cgi_t, mailman_queue_t, you must turn on the allow_ypbind boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P allow_ypbind 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux mailman policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their mailman processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for mailman:


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_archive_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_archive_t type, if you want to treat the files as mailman archive data.


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_cgi_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_cgi_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the mailman_cgi_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_cgi_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_cgi_tmp_t type, if you want to store mailman cgi temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_data_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_data_t type, if you want to treat the files as mailman content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/mailman.*, /var/spool/mailman.*, /var/lib/mailman.*

.EX
.PP
.B mailman_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as mailman lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as mailman log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_mail_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_mail_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the mailman_mail_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/mailman.*/mail/mailman, /usr/lib/mailman.*/bin/mm-handler.*, /usr/share/doc/mailman.*/mm-handler.*, /usr/lib/mailman.*/bin/mailmanctl, /usr/lib/mailman.*/scripts/mailman

.EX
.PP
.B mailman_mail_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_mail_tmp_t type, if you want to store mailman mail temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_queue_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_queue_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the mailman_queue_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/mailman.*/cron/.*, /usr/lib/mailman.*/bin/qrunner

.EX
.PP
.B mailman_queue_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_queue_tmp_t type, if you want to store mailman queue temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mailman_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mailman_var_run_t type, if you want to store the mailman files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux mailman policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their mailman processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for mailman:

.EX
.B mailman_cgi_t, mailman_mail_t, mailman_queue_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), mailman(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
