.TH  "matahari_selinux"  "8"  "matahari" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "matahari SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
matahari_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the matahari processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"


SELinux Linux secures
.B matahari
(policy for matahari)
processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  



.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux matahari policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their matahari processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for matahari:


.EX
.PP
.B matahari_hostd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_hostd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the matahari_hostd_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/matahari-qmf-hostd, /usr/sbin/matahari-hostd, /usr/sbin/matahari-dbus-hostd

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_hostd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_hostd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as matahari hostd unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system/matahari-host\.service, /lib/systemd/system/matahari-host\.service

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the matahari_initrc_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/matahari-sysconfig, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/matahari-host, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/matahari-service, /etc/init.d/matahari-sysconfig-console, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/matahari-net

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_netd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_netd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the matahari_netd_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/matahari-qmf-networkd, /usr/sbin/matahari-dbus-networkd, /usr/sbin/matahari-netd

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_netd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_netd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as matahari netd unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system/matahari-network\.service, /lib/systemd/system/matahari-network\.service

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_rpcd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_rpcd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the matahari_rpcd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B matahari_rpcd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_rpcd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as matahari rpcd unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system/matahari-rpc.service, /lib/systemd/system/matahari-rpc.service

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_serviced_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_serviced_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the matahari_serviced_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/matahari-serviced, /usr/sbin/matahari-dbus-serviced, /usr/sbin/matahari-qmf-serviced

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_serviced_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_serviced_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as matahari serviced unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system/matahari-service\.service, /lib/systemd/system/matahari-service\.service

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_sysconfigd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_sysconfigd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the matahari_sysconfigd_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/matahari-qmf-sysconfigd, /usr/sbin/matahari-qmf-sysconfig-consoled

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_sysconfigd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_sysconfigd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as matahari sysconfigd unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system/matahari-sysconfig-console\.service, /lib/systemd/system/matahari-sysconfig\.service, /usr/lib/systemd/system/matahari-sysconfig\.service, /lib/systemd/system/matahari-sysconfig-console\.service

.EX
.PP
.B matahari_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the matahari files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B matahari_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the matahari_var_run_t type, if you want to store the matahari files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/run/matahari(/.*)?, /var/run/matahari\.pid, /var/run/matahari-broker\.pid

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux matahari policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their matahari processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for matahari:

.EX
.TP 5
.B matahari_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 8021
.EE
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux matahari policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their matahari processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for matahari:

.EX
.B matahari_serviced_t, matahari_sysconfigd_t, matahari_hostd_t, matahari_netd_t, matahari_rpcd_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), matahari(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
