.TH  "mock_selinux"  "8"  "16 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "mock Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
mock_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the mock processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the mock processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux mock policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their mock processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for mock:


.EX
.B mock_build_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mock_build_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the mock_build_t domain.


.EX
.B mock_cache_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mock_cache_t context, if you want to store the files in the /var/cache directories.


.EX
.B mock_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mock_etc_t context, if you want to store mock files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.B mock_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mock_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the mock_t domain.


.EX
.B mock_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mock_tmp_t context, if you want to store mock temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B mock_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mock_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the mock files under the /var/lib directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  mock policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run mock with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow mock to read files in home directories., you must turn on the mock_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mock_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), mock(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)