.TH  "mscan_selinux"  "8"  "mscan" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "mscan SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
mscan_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the mscan processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the mscan processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  mscan policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run mscan with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow clamscan to read user content, you must turn on the clamscan_read_user_content boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P clamscan_read_user_content 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow clamscan to non security files on a system, you must turn on the clamscan_can_scan_system boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P clamscan_can_scan_system 1
.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd serve for the mscan_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the mscan_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux mscan policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their mscan processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for mscan:


.EX
.PP
.B mscan_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mscan_etc_t type, if you want to store mscan files in the /etc directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/sysconfig/MailScanner, /etc/MailScanner(/.*)?, /etc/sysconfig/update_spamassassin

.EX
.PP
.B mscan_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mscan_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the mscan_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B mscan_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mscan_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the mscan_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B mscan_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mscan_tmp_t type, if you want to store mscan temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B mscan_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the mscan_var_run_t type, if you want to store the mscan files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux mscan policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their mscan processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for mscan:

.EX
.B mscan_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), mscan(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)