.TH  "munin_selinux"  "8"  "munin" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "munin SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
munin_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the munin processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the munin processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux munin policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their munin processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for munin:


.EX
.B munin_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_etc_t context, if you want to store munin files in the /etc directories.

.br
Path: 
/etc/munin(/.*)?

.EX
.B munin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the munin_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/munin-.*, /usr/share/munin/munin-.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/.*, /usr/bin/munin-.*

.EX
.B munin_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the munin_initrc_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/munin-node

.EX
.B munin_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as munin log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/log/munin.*

.EX
.B munin_plugin_state_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_plugin_state_t context, if you want to treat the files as munin plugin state data.

.br
Path: 
/var/lib/munin/plugin-state(/.*)?

.EX
.B munin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_tmp_t context, if you want to store munin temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B munin_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the munin files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/lib/munin(/.*)?

.EX
.B munin_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the munin_var_run_t context, if you want to store the munin files under the /run directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/run/munin(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), munin(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
