.TH  "nagios_selinux"  "8"  "nagios" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "nagios SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
nagios_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the nagios processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the nagios processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd serve for the nagios_services_plugin_t, nagios_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the nagios_services_plugin_t, nagios_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux nagios policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their nagios processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for nagios:


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_admin_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_admin_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_admin_plugin_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_checkdisk_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_checkdisk_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_checkdisk_plugin_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_linux_raid, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_disk_smb, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ide_smart, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_disk

.EX
.PP
.B nagios_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_etc_t type, if you want to store nagios files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_eventhandler_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_eventhandler_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_eventhandler_plugin_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_eventhandler_plugin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_eventhandler_plugin_tmp_t type, if you want to store nagios eventhandler plugin temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_initrc_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/nagios, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/nrpe

.EX
.PP
.B nagios_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as nagios log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/log/netsaint(/.*)?, /var/log/nagios(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B nagios_mail_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_mail_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_mail_plugin_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_services_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_services_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_services_plugin_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_time, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_dhcp, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_radius, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_nrpe, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_smtp, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_cluster, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_sip, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ssh, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_pgsql, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ntp.*, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ldap, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_real, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_dummy, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ping, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_nt, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_game, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_breeze, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_tcp, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_rpc, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_oracle, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ups, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ircd, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_dig, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_mysql_query, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_hpjd, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_mysql, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_icmp, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_http, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_snmp.*, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_fping, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_dns

.EX
.PP
.B nagios_spool_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_spool_t type, if you want to store the nagios files under the /var/spool directory.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_system_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_system_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_system_plugin_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_log, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_load, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_nwstat, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_flexlm, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_swap, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_users, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ifstatus, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ifoperstatus, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_nagios, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_wave, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_mrtgtraf, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_procs, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_sensors, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_mrtg, /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_overcr

.EX
.PP
.B nagios_system_plugin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_system_plugin_tmp_t type, if you want to store nagios system plugin temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_tmp_t type, if you want to store nagios temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_unconfined_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_unconfined_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nagios_unconfined_plugin_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the nagios files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B nagios_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nagios_var_run_t type, if you want to store the nagios files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux nagios policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their nagios processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for nagios:

.EX
.B nagios_t, nagios_mail_plugin_t, nagios_checkdisk_plugin_t, nagios_services_plugin_t, nagios_eventhandler_plugin_t, nagios_system_plugin_t, nagios_unconfined_plugin_t, nagios_admin_plugin_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), nagios(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
