.TH  "named_selinux"  "8"  "named" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "named SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
named_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the named processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the named processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The named processes execute with the named_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier. 

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep named_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The named_t SELinux type can be entered via the "named_checkconf_exec_t,named_exec_t" file types.  The default entrypoint paths for the named_t domain are the following:"

/usr/sbin/named-checkconf, /usr/sbin/lwresd, /usr/sbin/named, /usr/sbin/unbound
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux named policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their named processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for named:

.EX
.B named_t, namespace_init_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  named policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run named with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow BIND to write the master zone files. Generally this is used for dynamic DNS or zone transfers, you must turn on the named_write_master_zones boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P named_write_master_zones 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow BIND to bind apache port, you must turn on the named_bind_http_port boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P named_bind_http_port 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux named policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their named processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for named:


.EX
.PP
.B named_cache_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_cache_t type, if you want to store the files under the /var/cache directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/named/chroot/var/named/data(/.*)?, /var/named/chroot/var/tmp(/.*)?, /var/named/data(/.*)?, /var/named/chroot/var/named/slaves(/.*)?, /var/named/dynamic(/.*)?, /var/named/slaves(/.*)?, /var/named/chroot/var/named/dynamic(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B named_checkconf_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_checkconf_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the named_checkconf_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B named_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_conf_t type, if you want to treat the files as named configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/named/chroot/etc/named\.root\.hints, /var/named/chroot(/.*)?, /var/named/named\.ca, /etc/unbound(/.*)?, /var/named/chroot/etc/named\.caching-nameserver\.conf, /etc/named\.rfc1912.zones, /etc/named\.caching-nameserver\.conf, /etc/named\.conf, /var/named/chroot/var/named/named\.ca, /var/named/chroot/etc/named\.conf, /etc/rndc.*, /var/named/chroot/etc/named\.rfc1912.zones, /etc/named\.root\.hints

.EX
.PP
.B named_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the named_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/lwresd, /usr/sbin/named, /usr/sbin/unbound

.EX
.PP
.B named_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the named_initrc_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/named, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/unbound

.EX
.PP
.B named_keytab_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_keytab_t type, if you want to treat the files as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.PP
.B named_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as named log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/log/named.*, /var/named/chroot/var/log/named.*

.EX
.PP
.B named_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_tmp_t type, if you want to store named temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B named_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as named unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system/unbound.*, /usr/lib/systemd/system/named.*

.EX
.PP
.B named_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_var_run_t type, if you want to store the named files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/named/chroot/var/run/named.*, /var/run/ndc, /var/run/bind(/.*)?, /var/run/named(/.*)?, /var/run/unbound(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B named_zone_t 
.EE

- Set files with the named_zone_t type, if you want to treat the files as named zone data.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/named/chroot/var/named(/.*)?, /var/named(/.*)?

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type named_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B named_cache_t

	/var/named/data(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/slaves(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/dynamic(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/chroot/var/tmp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/chroot/var/named/data(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/chroot/var/named/slaves(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/chroot/var/named/dynamic(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B named_log_t

	/var/log/named.*
.br
	/var/named/chroot/var/log/named.*
.br

.br
.B named_tmp_t


.br
.B named_var_run_t

	/var/run/bind(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/named(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/unbound(/.*)?
.br
	/var/named/chroot/var/run/named.*
.br
	/var/run/ndc
.br

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd serve for the namespace_init_t, named_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the namespace_init_t, named_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was auto-generated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), named(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8), namespace_init_selinux(8)