.TH  "ndc_selinux"  "8"  "16 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "ndc Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
ndc_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the ndc processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the ndc processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux ndc policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their ndc processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for ndc:


.EX
.B ndc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the ndc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the ndc_t domain.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  ndc policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run ndc with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow ZoneMinder to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the zoneminder_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P zoneminder_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to determine whether Polipo session daemon can send syslog messages., you must turn on the polipo_session_send_syslog_msg boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_session_send_syslog_msg 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow tor daemon to bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports., you must turn on the tor_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P tor_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to determine whether Polipo session daemon can bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports., you must turn on the polipo_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Apache to use mod_auth_ntlm_winbind, you must turn on the allow_httpd_mod_auth_ntlm_winbind boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_httpd_mod_auth_ntlm_winbind 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NIS, you must turn on the allow_ypbind boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_ypbind 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ABRT to run in abrt_handle_event_t domain to handle ABRT event scripts, you must turn on the abrt_handle_event boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P abrt_handle_event 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xend to run qemu-dm. Not required if using paravirt and no vfb., you must turn on the xend_run_qemu boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xend_run_qemu 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unconfined users to transition to the chrome sandbox domains when running chrome-sandbox, you must turn on the unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xend to run blktapctrl/tapdisk. Not required if using dedicated logical volumes for disk images., you must turn on the xend_run_blktap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xend_run_blktap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow http daemon to send mail, you must turn on the httpd_can_sendmail boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_sendmail 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow syslogd daemon to send mail, you must turn on the logging_syslogd_can_sendmail boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P logging_syslogd_can_sendmail 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow BIND to bind apache port., you must turn on the named_bind_http_port boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P named_bind_http_port 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow gitisis daemon to send mail, you must turn on the gitosis_can_sendmail boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gitosis_can_sendmail 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon session to bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports., you must turn on the git_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable extra rules in the cron domain to support fcron., you must turn on the fcron_crond boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fcron_crond 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), ndc(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)