.TH  "netutils_selinux"  "8"  "netutils" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "netutils Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
netutils_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the netutils processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the netutils processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux netutils policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their netutils processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for netutils:


.EX
.B netutils_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the netutils_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the netutils_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/sbin/arping, /usr/sbin/arping, /usr/sbin/tcpdump

.EX
.B netutils_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the netutils_tmp_t context, if you want to store netutils temporary files in the /tmp directories.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), netutils(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
