.TH  "nova_selinux"  "8"  "nova" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "nova SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
nova_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the nova processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"


SELinux Linux secures
.B nova
(openstack-nova)
processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  



.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux nova policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their nova processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for nova:


.EX
.PP
.B nova_ajax_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_ajax_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_ajax_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_ajax_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_ajax_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova ajax temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_api_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_api_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_api_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_api_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_api_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova api temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_compute_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_compute_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_compute_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_compute_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_compute_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova compute temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_direct_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_direct_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_direct_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_direct_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_direct_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova direct temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as nova log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_network_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_network_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_network_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_network_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_network_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova network temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_objectstore_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_objectstore_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_objectstore_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_objectstore_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_objectstore_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova objectstore temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_scheduler_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_scheduler_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_scheduler_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_scheduler_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_scheduler_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova scheduler temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the nova files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_var_run_t type, if you want to store the nova files under the /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_vncproxy_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_vncproxy_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_vncproxy_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_vncproxy_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_vncproxy_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova vncproxy temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_volume_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_volume_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the nova_volume_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B nova_volume_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nova_volume_tmp_t type, if you want to store nova volume temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux nova policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their nova processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for nova:

.EX
.B nova_api_t, nova_compute_t, nova_network_t, nova_objectstore_t, nova_vncproxy_t, nova_volume_t, nova_scheduler_t, nova_ajax_t, nova_direct_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), nova(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
