.TH  "nut_selinux"  "8"  "nut" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "nut Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
nut_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the nut processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the nut processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux nut policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their nut processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for nut:


.EX
.B nut_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nut_conf_t context, if you want to treat the files as nut configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
Path: 
/etc/ups(/.*)?

.EX
.B nut_upsd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nut_upsd_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the nut_upsd_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/sbin/upsd

.EX
.B nut_upsdrvctl_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nut_upsdrvctl_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the nut_upsdrvctl_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/upsdrvctl, /sbin/upsdrvctl

.EX
.B nut_upsmon_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nut_upsmon_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the nut_upsmon_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/sbin/upsmon

.EX
.B nut_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nut_var_run_t context, if you want to store the nut files under the /run directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/run/nut(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), nut(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
