.TH  "nx_selinux"  "8"  "16 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "nx Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
nx_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the nx processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the nx processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux nx policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their nx processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for nx:


.EX
.B nx_server_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nx_server_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the nx_server_t domain.


.EX
.B nx_server_home_ssh_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nx_server_home_ssh_t context, if you want to treat the files as nx server home ssh data.


.EX
.B nx_server_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nx_server_tmp_t context, if you want to store nx server temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B nx_server_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nx_server_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the nx server files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.B nx_server_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the nx_server_var_run_t context, if you want to store the nx server files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  nx policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run nx with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow privoxy to connect to all ports, not just HTTP, FTP, and Gopher ports., you must turn on the privoxy_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P privoxy_connect_any 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the graphical login program to login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on the xdm_sysadm_login boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xen to manage nfs files, you must turn on the xen_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xen_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined web browsers to read home directory content, you must turn on the mozilla_read_content boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mozilla_read_content 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xguest users to configure Network Manager and connect to apache ports, you must turn on the xguest_connect_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xguest_connect_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow database admins to execute DML statement, you must turn on the sepgsql_unconfined_dbadm boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sepgsql_unconfined_dbadm 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow clamscan to read user content, you must turn on the clamscan_read_user_content boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P clamscan_read_user_content 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow tftp to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the tftp_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P tftp_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ZoneMinder to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the zoneminder_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P zoneminder_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow direct login to the console device. Required for System 390, you must turn on the allow_console_login boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_console_login 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow user spamassassin clients to use the network., you must turn on the spamassassin_can_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P spamassassin_can_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to act as a relay, you must turn on the httpd_can_network_relay boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_relay 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow openvpn to read home directories, you must turn on the openvpn_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P openvpn_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow usage of the gpg-agent --write-env-file option. This also allows gpg-agent to manage user files., you must turn on the gpg_agent_env_file boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gpg_agent_env_file 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the Telepathy connection managers to connect to any generic TCP port., you must turn on the telepathy_tcp_connect_generic_network_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P telepathy_tcp_connect_generic_network_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unconfined users to transition to the Mozilla plugin domain when running xulrunner plugin-container., you must turn on the unconfined_mozilla_plugin_transition boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_mozilla_plugin_transition 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow HTTPD scripts and modules to connect to databases over the network., you must turn on the httpd_can_network_connect_db boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_db 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to connect to the local mysql server, you must turn on the allow_user_mysql_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_user_mysql_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow polipo to connect to all ports > 1023, you must turn on the polipo_connect_all_unreserved boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_connect_all_unreserved 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow samba to act as the domain controller, add users, groups and change passwords., you must turn on the samba_domain_controller boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_domain_controller 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to execute cgi scripts, you must turn on the httpd_enable_cgi boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_cgi 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage nfs files, you must turn on the virt_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all daemons the ability to read/write terminals, you must turn on the allow_daemons_use_tty boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_daemons_use_tty 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow samba to modify public files used for public file transfer services.  Files/Directories must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on the allow_smbd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_smbd_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow rsync to run as a client, you must turn on the rsync_client boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P rsync_client 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow rgmanager domain to connect to the network using TCP., you must turn on the rgmanager_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P rgmanager_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sysadm to debug or ptrace all processes., you must turn on the deny_ptrace boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Puppet client to manage all file types., you must turn on the puppet_manage_all_files boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P puppet_manage_all_files 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the use of the audio devices as the source for the entropy feeds, you must turn on the entropyd_use_audio boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P entropyd_use_audio 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ssh logins as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on the ssh_sysadm_login boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_sysadm_login 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to determine whether Polipo session daemon can send syslog messages., you must turn on the polipo_session_send_syslog_msg boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_session_send_syslog_msg 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow BIND to write the master zone files. Generally this is used for dynamic DNS or zone transfers., you must turn on the named_write_master_zones boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P named_write_master_zones 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow tor daemon to bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports., you must turn on the tor_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P tor_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow host key based authentication, you must turn on the allow_ssh_keysign boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_ssh_keysign 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow piranha-lvs domain to connect to the network using TCP., you must turn on the piranha_lvs_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P piranha_lvs_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ABRT to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the abrt_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P abrt_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ftp servers to connect to mysql database ports, you must turn on the ftpd_connect_db boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ftpd_connect_db 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to search home directories., you must turn on the git_system_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow mock to read files in home directories., you must turn on the mock_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mock_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a sssd server, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to control users use of ping and traceroute, you must turn on the user_ping boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P user_ping 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the Irssi IRC Client to connect to any port, and to bind to any unreserved port., you must turn on the irssi_use_full_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P irssi_use_full_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow zabbix to connect to unreserved ports, you must turn on the zabbix_can_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P zabbix_can_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ftp servers to use nfs used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the allow_ftpd_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_ftpd_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to read home directories, you must turn on the httpd_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow gpg web domain to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the gpg_web_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gpg_web_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow rsync to export any files/directories read only., you must turn on the rsync_export_all_ro boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P rsync_export_all_ro 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow apache scripts to write to public content.  Directories/Files must be labeled public_rw_content_t., you must turn on the allow_httpd_sys_script_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_httpd_sys_script_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to determine whether Polipo session daemon can bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports., you must turn on the polipo_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all daemons to use tcp wrappers., you must turn on the allow_daemons_use_tcp_wrapper boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_daemons_use_tcp_wrapper 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow samba to share users home directories., you must turn on the samba_enable_home_dirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_enable_home_dirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow racoon to read shadow, you must turn on the racoon_read_shadow boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P racoon_read_shadow 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Cobbler to connect to the network using TCP., you must turn on the cobbler_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P cobbler_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow dbadm to manage files in users home directories, you must turn on the dbadm_manage_user_files boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P dbadm_manage_user_files 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to access nfs file systems., you must turn on the git_system_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to unify HTTPD handling of all content files., you must turn on the httpd_unified boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_unified 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow nsplugin code to connect to unreserved ports, you must turn on the nsplugin_can_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nsplugin_can_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow rsync to modify public files used for public file transfer services.  Files/Directories must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on the allow_rsync_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_rsync_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow qemu to use nfs file systems, you must turn on the qemu_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P qemu_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow HTTPD scripts and modules to connect to the network using any TCP port., you must turn on the httpd_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow exim to connect to databases (PostgreSQL, MySQL), you must turn on the exim_can_connect_db boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P exim_can_connect_db 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow varnishd to connect to all ports, not just HTTP., you must turn on the varnishd_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P varnishd_connect_any 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all daemons to write corefiles to /, you must turn on the allow_daemons_dump_core boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_daemons_dump_core 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to connect to the ldap port, you must turn on the httpd_can_connect_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow spamd to read/write user home directories., you must turn on the spamd_enable_home_dirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P spamd_enable_home_dirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Apache to use mod_auth_ntlm_winbind, you must turn on the allow_httpd_mod_auth_ntlm_winbind boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_httpd_mod_auth_ntlm_winbind 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NIS, you must turn on the allow_ypbind boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_ypbind 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow qemu to connect fully to the network, you must turn on the qemu_full_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P qemu_full_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow nfs servers to modify public files used for public file transfer services.  Files/Directories must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on the allow_nfsd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_nfsd_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ABRT to run in abrt_handle_event_t domain to handle ABRT event scripts, you must turn on the abrt_handle_event boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P abrt_handle_event 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xend to run qemu-dm. Not required if using paravirt and no vfb., you must turn on the xend_run_qemu boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xend_run_qemu 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sftp-internal to read and write files in the user home directories, you must turn on the sftpd_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the Telepathy connection managers to connect to any network port., you must turn on the telepathy_connect_all_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P telepathy_connect_all_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to determine whether calling user domains can execute Polipo daemon in the polipo_session_t domain., you must turn on the polipo_session_users boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_session_users 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to use nscd shared memory., you must turn on the nscd_use_shm boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow fenced domain to execute ssh., you must turn on the fenced_can_ssh boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fenced_can_ssh 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Apache to modify public files used for public file transfer services. Directories/Files must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on the allow_httpd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_httpd_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the mount command to mount any directory or file., you must turn on the allow_mount_anyfile boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_mount_anyfile 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow a user to login as an unconfined domain, you must turn on the unconfined_login boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_login 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to disallow programs and users from transitioning to insmod domain., you must turn on the secure_mode_insmod boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P secure_mode_insmod 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to act as a FTP client connecting to the ftp port and ephemeral ports, you must turn on the httpd_can_connect_ftp boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_ftp 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Cobbler to access nfs file systems., you must turn on the cobbler_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P cobbler_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow nsplugin code to execmem/execstack, you must turn on the allow_nsplugin_execmem boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_nsplugin_execmem 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable polyinstantiated directory support., you must turn on the allow_polyinstantiation boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_polyinstantiation 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to support X userspace object manager, you must turn on the xserver_object_manager boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to ignore vbetool mmap_zero errors., you must turn on the vbetool_mmap_zero_ignore boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P vbetool_mmap_zero_ignore 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to read user content, you must turn on the httpd_read_user_content boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_read_user_content 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to access nfs file systems, you must turn on the httpd_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unconfined users to transition to the chrome sandbox domains when running chrome-sandbox, you must turn on the unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_chrome_sandbox_transition 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sge to access nfs file systems., you must turn on the sge_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sge_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow any files/directories to be exported read/write via NFS., you must turn on the nfs_export_all_rw boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nfs_export_all_rw 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow user to r/w files on filesystems that do not have extended attributes (FAT, CDROM, FLOPPY), you must turn on the user_rw_noexattrfile boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P user_rw_noexattrfile 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow mysqld to connect to all ports, you must turn on the mysql_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mysql_connect_any 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xend to run blktapctrl/tapdisk. Not required if using dedicated logical volumes for disk images., you must turn on the xend_run_blktap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xend_run_blktap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to interact with the sanlock, you must turn on the virt_use_sanlock boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_sanlock 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage nfs files, you must turn on the sanlock_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sanlock_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to have the kernel load modules, you must turn on the domain_kernel_load_modules boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modules 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable additional permissions needed to support devices on 3ware controllers., you must turn on the smartmon_3ware boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P smartmon_3ware 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd processes to manage IPA content, you must turn on the httpd_manage_ipa boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_manage_ipa 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow http daemon to send mail, you must turn on the httpd_can_sendmail boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_sendmail 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable support for upstart as the init program., you must turn on the init_upstart boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P init_upstart 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow zebra daemon to write it configuration files, you must turn on the allow_zebra_write_config boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_zebra_write_config 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to use built in scripting (usually php), you must turn on the httpd_builtin_scripting boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_builtin_scripting 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow exim to create, read, write, and delete unprivileged user files., you must turn on the exim_manage_user_files boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P exim_manage_user_files 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow cdrecord to read various content. nfs, samba, removable devices, user temp and untrusted content files, you must turn on the cdrecord_read_content boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P cdrecord_read_content 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Cobbler to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the cobbler_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P cobbler_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow samba to export NFS volumes., you must turn on the samba_share_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_share_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to ignore wine mmap_zero errors., you must turn on the wine_mmap_zero_ignore boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P wine_mmap_zero_ignore 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow collectd to connect to the network using TCP., you must turn on the collectd_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P collectd_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow logging in and using the system from /dev/console., you must turn on the console_login boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P console_login 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow fenced domain to connect to the network using TCP., you must turn on the fenced_can_network_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fenced_can_network_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to connect to PostgreSQL, you must turn on the allow_user_postgresql_connect boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_user_postgresql_connect 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow http daemon to check spam, you must turn on the httpd_can_check_spam boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_check_spam 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow xguest users to mount removable media, you must turn on the xguest_mount_media boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xguest_mount_media 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow icecast to connect to all ports, not just sound ports., you must turn on the icecast_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P icecast_connect_any 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow pppd to load kernel modules for certain modems, you must turn on the pppd_can_insmod boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P pppd_can_insmod 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to deny user domains applications to map a memory region as both executable and writable, this is dangerous and the executable should be reported in bugzilla, you must turn on the deny_execmem boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_execmem 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow syslogd daemon to send mail, you must turn on the logging_syslogd_can_sendmail boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P logging_syslogd_can_sendmail 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to determine whether Polipo can access nfs file systems., you must turn on the polipo_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polipo_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow samba to run unconfined scripts, you must turn on the samba_run_unconfined boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P samba_run_unconfined 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to support NFS home directories, you must turn on the use_nfs_home_dirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ftp servers to connect to all ports > 1023, you must turn on the ftpd_connect_all_unreserved boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ftpd_connect_all_unreserved 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow BIND to bind apache port., you must turn on the named_bind_http_port boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P named_bind_http_port 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow gitisis daemon to send mail, you must turn on the gitosis_can_sendmail boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P gitosis_can_sendmail 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to connect to memcache server, you must turn on the httpd_can_network_memcache boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_memcache 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow HTTPD scripts and modules to connect to cobbler over the network., you must turn on the httpd_can_network_connect_cobbler boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_cobbler 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage cifs files, you must turn on the sanlock_use_samba boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sanlock_use_samba 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ftp servers to upload files,  used for public file transfer services. Directories must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on the allow_ftpd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_ftpd_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow video playing tools to run unconfined, you must turn on the unconfined_mplayer boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P unconfined_mplayer 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow webadm to manage files in users home directories, you must turn on the webadm_manage_user_files boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P webadm_manage_user_files 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon session to bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports., you must turn on the git_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_session_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow httpd to act as a FTP server by listening on the ftp port., you must turn on the httpd_enable_ftp_server boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_enable_ftp_server 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable extra rules in the cron domain to support fcron., you must turn on the fcron_crond boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fcron_crond 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow http daemon to connect to zabbix, you must turn on the httpd_can_connect_zabbix boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_zabbix 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on the allow_domain_fd_use boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_domain_fd_use 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a radius server, you must turn on the authlogin_radius boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_radius 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow squid to connect to all ports, not just HTTP, FTP, and Gopher ports., you must turn on the squid_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P squid_connect_any 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow syslogd the ability to read/write terminals, you must turn on the logging_syslogd_use_tty boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P logging_syslogd_use_tty 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable support for systemd as the init program., you must turn on the init_systemd boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P init_systemd 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow any files/directories to be exported read/only via NFS., you must turn on the nfs_export_all_ro boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nfs_export_all_ro 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system cron jobs to relabel filesystem for restoring file contexts., you must turn on the cron_can_relabel boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P cron_can_relabel 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow anon internal-sftp to upload files, used for public file transfer services. Directories must be labeled public_content_rw_t., you must turn on the sftpd_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_anon_write 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unprivileged users to execute DDL statement, you must turn on the sepgsql_enable_users_ddl boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sepgsql_enable_users_ddl 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), nx(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)