.TH  "pam_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "pam Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
pam_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the pam processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the pam processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux pam policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pam processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for pam:


.EX
.B pam_console_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pam_console_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the pam_console_t domain.


.EX
.B pam_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pam_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the pam_t domain.


.EX
.B pam_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pam_tmp_t context, if you want to store pam temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B pam_var_console_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pam_var_console_t context, if you want to treat the files as pam var console data.


.EX
.B pam_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pam_var_run_t context, if you want to store the pam files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  pam policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run pam with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow user spamassassin clients to use the network, you must turn on the spamassassin_can_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P spamassassin_can_network 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Apache to use mod_auth_pa, you must turn on the allow_httpd_mod_auth_pam boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_httpd_mod_auth_pam 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow spamd to read/write user home directories, you must turn on the spamd_enable_home_dirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P spamd_enable_home_dirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow http daemon to check spa, you must turn on the httpd_can_check_spam boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P httpd_can_check_spam 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), pam(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)