.TH  "pegasus_selinux"  "8"  "pegasus" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "pegasus SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the pegasus processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the pegasus processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd serve for the pegasus_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the pegasus_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux pegasus policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pegasus processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for pegasus:


.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_cache_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_cache_t type, if you want to store the files under the /var/cache directory.


.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_conf_t type, if you want to treat the files as pegasus configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.


.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_data_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_data_t type, if you want to treat the files as pegasus content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/Pegasus/pegasus_current\.conf, /var/lib/Pegasus(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the pegasus_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/init_repository, /usr/sbin/cimserver

.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_mof_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_mof_t type, if you want to treat the files as pegasus mof data.


.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_tmp_t type, if you want to store pegasus temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B pegasus_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the pegasus_var_run_t type, if you want to store the pegasus files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux pegasus policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pegasus processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for pegasus:

.EX
.TP 5
.B pegasus_http_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 5988
.EE

.EX
.TP 5
.B pegasus_https_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 5989
.EE
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux pegasus policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pegasus processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for pegasus:

.EX
.B pegasus_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux user type pegasus_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B faillog_t

	/var/log/btmp.*
.br
	/var/run/faillock(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/faillog
.br
	/var/log/tallylog
.br

.br
.B initrc_var_run_t

	/var/run/utmp
.br
	/var/run/random-seed
.br
	/var/run/runlevel\.dir
.br
	/var/run/setmixer_flag
.br

.br
.B pcscd_var_run_t

	/var/run/pcscd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pcscd\.events(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pcscd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/pcscd\.pub
.br
	/var/run/pcscd\.comm
.br

.br
.B pegasus_cache_t


.br
.B pegasus_data_t

	/var/lib/Pegasus(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/Pegasus/pegasus_current\.conf
.br

.br
.B pegasus_tmp_t


.br
.B pegasus_var_run_t

	/var/run/tog-pegasus(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B samba_etc_t

	/etc/samba(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B virt_etc_rw_t

	/etc/xen/.*/.*
.br
	/etc/xen/[^/]*
.br
	/etc/libvirt/.*/.*
.br
	/etc/libvirt/[^/]*
.br

.br
.B virt_etc_t

	/etc/xen/[^/]*
.br
	/etc/libvirt/[^/]*
.br
	/etc/xen
.br
	/etc/libvirt
.br

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was auto-generated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), pegasus(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
