.TH  "pki_tps_selinux"  "8"  "12-11-01" "pki_tps" "SELinux Policy documentation for pki_tps"
.SH "NAME"
pki_tps_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the pki_tps processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the pki_tps processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The pki_tps processes execute with the pki_tps_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep pki_tps_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The pki_tps_t SELinux type can be entered via the "httpd_exec_t,pki_tps_exec_t" file types.  The default entrypoint paths for the pki_tps_t domain are the following:"

/usr/sbin/httpd(\.worker)?, /usr/sbin/apache(2)?, /usr/lib/apache-ssl/.+, /usr/sbin/apache-ssl(2)?, /usr/share/jetty/bin/jetty.sh, /usr/sbin/cherokee, /usr/sbin/lighttpd, /usr/sbin/httpd\.event, /usr/bin/mongrel_rails, /var/lib/pki-tps/pki-tps
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux pki_tps policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pki_tps processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for pki_tps:

.EX
.B pki_tps_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux pki_tps policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pki_tps processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following file types are defined for pki_tps:


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_etc_rw_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_etc_rw_t type, if you want to treat the files as pki tps etc read/write content.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the pki_tps_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_lock_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as pki tps lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_log_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as pki tps log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_script_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_script_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the pki_tps_script_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_tomcat_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_tomcat_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the pki_tps_tomcat_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the pki tps files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tps_var_run_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tps_var_run_t type, if you want to store the pki tps files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports.
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command:

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports.
SELinux pki_tps policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pki_tps processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following port types are defined for pki_tps:

.EX
.TP 5
.B pki_tps_port_t
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 7888-7889
.EE
.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type pki_tps_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B pki_common_t

	/opt/nfast(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tps_etc_rw_t

	/etc/pki-tps(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/pki/tps(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tps_lock_t


.br
.B pki_tps_log_t

	/var/log/pki-tps(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tps_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pki-tps(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tps_var_run_t

	/var/run/pki/tps(/.*)?
.br

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd serve for the pki_tps_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the pki_tps_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage"
by Dan Walsh.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), pki_tps(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, pki_ra_selinux(8), pki_tomcat_selinux(8)