.TH  "pki_tomcat_selinux"  "8"  "13-01-16" "pki_tomcat" "SELinux Policy documentation for pki_tomcat"
.SH "NAME"
pki_tomcat_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the pki_tomcat processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the pki_tomcat processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The pki_tomcat processes execute with the pki_tomcat_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep pki_tomcat_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The pki_tomcat_t SELinux type can be entered via the \fBpki_tomcat_exec_t\fP file type.

The default entrypoint paths for the pki_tomcat_t domain are the following:

/usr/bin/pkidaemon
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux pki_tomcat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pki_tomcat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for pki_tomcat:

.EX
.B pki_tomcat_t, pki_tomcat_script_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a pki_tomcat_t
can be used to make the process type pki_tomcat_t permissive. SELinux does not deny access to permissive process types, but the AVC (SELinux denials) messages are still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  pki_tomcat policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run pki_tomcat with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow all daemons to write corefiles to /, you must turn on the daemons_dump_core boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_dump_core 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all daemons to use tcp wrappers, you must turn on the daemons_use_tcp_wrapper boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tcp_wrapper 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all daemons the ability to read/write terminals, you must turn on the daemons_use_tty boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sysadm to debug or ptrace all processes, you must turn on the deny_ptrace boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on the domain_fd_use boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to have the kernel load modules, you must turn on the domain_kernel_load_modules boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modules 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to execute in fips_mode, you must turn on the fips_mode boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to enable reading of urandom for all domains, you must turn on the global_ssp boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to use nscd shared memory, you must turn on the nscd_use_shm boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type pki_tomcat_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B dirsrv_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/dirsrv(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_common_t

	/opt/nfast(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tomcat_cache_t


.br
.B pki_tomcat_cert_t

	/var/lib/pki-ca/alias(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki-kra/alias(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki-tks/alias(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki-ocsp/alias(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/pki/pki-tomcat/alias(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tomcat_etc_rw_t

	/etc/pki-ca(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/pki-kra(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/pki-tks(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/pki-ocsp(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/pki/pki-tomcat(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/pki/tomcat(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tomcat_lock_t

	/var/lock/subsys/pkidaemon
.br

.br
.B pki_tomcat_log_t

	/var/log/pki-ca(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/pki-kra(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/pki-tks(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/pki-ocsp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/pki/pki-tomcat(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tomcat_tmp_t


.br
.B pki_tomcat_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pki-ca(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki-kra(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki-tks(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki-ocsp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pki/pki-tomcat(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pki_tomcat_var_run_t

	/var/run/pki-ca.pid
.br
	/var/run/pki-kra.pid
.br
	/var/run/pki-tks.pid
.br
	/var/run/pki-ocsp.pid
.br
	/var/run/pki/tomcat(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B root_t

	/
.br
	/initrd
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_t

	/var/run/user(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-.*
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-pwalsh
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-dwalsh
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-xguest
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux pki_tomcat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their pki_tomcat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B EQUIVALENCE DIRECTORIES

.PP
pki_tomcat policy stores data with multiple different file context types under the /var/lib/pki-ca directory.  If you would like to store the data in a different directory you can use the semanage command to create an equivalence mapping.  If you wanted to store this data under the /srv dirctory you would execute the following command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/lib/pki-ca /srv/pki-ca
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/pki-ca
.PP

.PP
pki_tomcat policy stores data with multiple different file context types under the /var/lib/pki-kra directory.  If you would like to store the data in a different directory you can use the semanage command to create an equivalence mapping.  If you wanted to store this data under the /srv dirctory you would execute the following command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/lib/pki-kra /srv/pki-kra
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/pki-kra
.PP

.PP
pki_tomcat policy stores data with multiple different file context types under the /var/lib/pki-ocsp directory.  If you would like to store the data in a different directory you can use the semanage command to create an equivalence mapping.  If you wanted to store this data under the /srv dirctory you would execute the following command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/lib/pki-ocsp /srv/pki-ocsp
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/pki-ocsp
.PP

.PP
pki_tomcat policy stores data with multiple different file context types under the /var/lib/pki-tks directory.  If you would like to store the data in a different directory you can use the semanage command to create an equivalence mapping.  If you wanted to store this data under the /srv dirctory you would execute the following command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/lib/pki-tks /srv/pki-tks
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/pki-tks
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines the file context types for the pki_tomcat, if you wanted to
store files with these types in a diffent paths, you need to execute the semanage command to sepecify alternate labeling and then use restorecon to put the labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t pki_tomcat_cache_t '/srv/pki_tomcat/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/mypki_tomcat_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions to specify labels that match multiple files.

.I The following file types are defined for pki_tomcat:


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_cache_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_cache_t type, if you want to store the files under the /var/cache directory.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_cert_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_cert_t type, if you want to treat the files as pki tomcat certificate data.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/lib/pki-ca/alias(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki-kra/alias(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki-tks/alias(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki-ocsp/alias(/.*)?, /etc/pki/pki-tomcat/alias(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_etc_rw_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_etc_rw_t type, if you want to treat the files as pki tomcat etc read/write content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/pki-ca(/.*)?, /etc/pki-kra(/.*)?, /etc/pki-tks(/.*)?, /etc/pki-ocsp(/.*)?, /etc/pki/pki-tomcat(/.*)?, /etc/sysconfig/pki/tomcat(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the pki_tomcat_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_lock_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as pki tomcat lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_log_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as pki tomcat log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/log/pki-ca(/.*)?, /var/log/pki-kra(/.*)?, /var/log/pki-tks(/.*)?, /var/log/pki-ocsp(/.*)?, /var/log/pki/pki-tomcat(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_tmp_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_tmp_t type, if you want to store pki tomcat temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_unit_file_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as pki tomcat unit content.


.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the pki tomcat files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/lib/pki-ca(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki-kra(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki-tks(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki-ocsp(/.*)?, /var/lib/pki/pki-tomcat(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B pki_tomcat_var_run_t
.EE

- Set files with the pki_tomcat_var_run_t type, if you want to store the pki tomcat files under the /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/run/pki-ca.pid, /var/run/pki-kra.pid, /var/run/pki-tks.pid, /var/run/pki-ocsp.pid, /var/run/pki/tomcat(/.*)?

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage"
by Dan Walsh.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), pki_tomcat(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), pki_ra_selinux(8), pki_tomcat_script_selinux(8), pki_tps_selinux(8)