.TH  "prelink_selinux"  "8"  "prelink" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "prelink Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
prelink_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the prelink processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the prelink processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux prelink policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their prelink processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for prelink:


.EX
.B prelink_cache_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_cache_t context, if you want to store the files under the /var/cache directory.

.br
Path: 
/etc/prelink\.cache

.EX
.B prelink_cron_system_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_cron_system_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the prelink_cron_system_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/etc/cron\.daily/prelink

.EX
.B prelink_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the prelink_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/sbin/prelink(\.bin)?

.EX
.B prelink_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as prelink log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/log/prelink(/.*)?, /var/log/prelink\.log

.EX
.B prelink_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_tmp_t context, if you want to store prelink temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B prelink_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store prelink files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B prelink_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the prelink_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the prelink files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/lib/prelink(/.*)?, /var/lib/misc/prelink.*
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), prelink(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
