.TH  "rabbitmq_selinux"  "8"  "rabbitmq" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "rabbitmq Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
rabbitmq_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the rabbitmq processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the rabbitmq processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux rabbitmq policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their rabbitmq processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for rabbitmq:


.EX
.B rabbitmq_beam_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rabbitmq_beam_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the rabbitmq_beam_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/lib64/erlang/erts-5.8.5/bin/beam.*

.EX
.B rabbitmq_epmd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rabbitmq_epmd_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the rabbitmq_epmd_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/lib64/erlang/erts-5.8.5/bin/epmd

.EX
.B rabbitmq_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rabbitmq_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the rabbitmq files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/lib/rabbitmq(/.*)?

.EX
.B rabbitmq_var_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rabbitmq_var_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as rabbitmq var log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/log/rabbitmq(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), rabbitmq(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
