.TH  "regex_selinux"  "8"  "regex" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "regex SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
regex_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the regex processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the regex processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux regex policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their regex processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for regex:


.EX
.B regex_milter_data_t 
.EE

- Set files with the regex_milter_data_t context, if you want to treat the files as regex milter content.

.br
Path: 
/var/spool/milter-regex(/.*)?

.EX
.B regex_milter_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the regex_milter_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the regex_milter_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/sbin/milter-regex
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), regex(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
