.TH  "rngd_selinux"  "8"  "12-11-01" "rngd" "SELinux Policy documentation for rngd"
.SH "NAME"
rngd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the rngd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the rngd processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The rngd processes execute with the rngd_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep rngd_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The rngd_t SELinux type can be entered via the "rngd_exec_t" file type.  The default entrypoint paths for the rngd_t domain are the following:"

/usr/sbin/rngd
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux rngd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their rngd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for rngd:

.EX
.B rngd_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux rngd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their rngd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following file types are defined for rngd:


.EX
.PP
.B rngd_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the rngd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the rngd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B rngd_initrc_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the rngd_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the rngd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B rngd_unit_file_t
.EE

- Set files with the rngd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as rngd unit content.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage"
by Dan Walsh.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), rngd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
