.TH  "rssh_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "rssh Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
rssh_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the rssh processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the rssh processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux rssh policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their rssh processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for rssh:


.EX
.B rssh_chroot_helper_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rssh_chroot_helper_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the rssh_chroot_helper_t domain.


.EX
.B rssh_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rssh_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the rssh_t domain.


.EX
.B rssh_ro_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rssh_ro_t context, if you want to treat the files as rssh read/only content.


.EX
.B rssh_rw_t 
.EE

- Set files with the rssh_rw_t context, if you want to treat the files as rssh read/write content.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  rssh policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run rssh with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow the Irssi IRC Client to connect to any port, and to bind to any unreserved port, you must turn on the irssi_use_full_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P irssi_use_full_network 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), rssh(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)