.TH  "sanlock_selinux"  "8"  "sanlock" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "sanlock Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
sanlock_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the sanlock processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the sanlock processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux sanlock policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their sanlock processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for sanlock:


.EX
.B sanlock_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sanlock_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the sanlock_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/sbin/sanlock

.EX
.B sanlock_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sanlock_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the sanlock_initrc_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/sanlock

.EX
.B sanlock_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sanlock_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as sanlock log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/log/sanlock\.log

.EX
.B sanlock_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sanlock_var_run_t context, if you want to store the sanlock files under the /run directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/run/sanlock(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  sanlock policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run sanlock with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to interact with the sanloc, you must turn on the virt_use_sanlock boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_sanlock 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage nfs file, you must turn on the sanlock_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sanlock_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage cifs file, you must turn on the sanlock_use_samba boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sanlock_use_samba 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), sanlock(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)