.TH  "selinux_selinux"  "8"  "selinux" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "selinux SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selinux_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the selinux processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the selinux processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  selinux policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run selinux with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow unconfined executables to make their heap memory executable.  Doing this is a really bad idea. Probably indicates a badly coded executable, but could indicate an attack. This executable should be reported in bugzilla, you must turn on the selinuxuser_execheap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execheap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all unconfined executables to use libraries requiring text relocation that are not labeled textrel_shlib_t, you must turn on the selinuxuser_execmod boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execmod 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unconfined executables to make their stack executable.  This should never, ever be necessary. Probably indicates a badly coded executable, but could indicate an attack. This executable should be reported in bugzilla, you must turn on the selinuxuser_execstack boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execstack 1
.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux selinux policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their selinux processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for selinux:


.EX
.PP
.B selinux_config_t 
.EE

- Set files with the selinux_config_t type, if you want to treat the files as selinux configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/selinux/([^/]*/)?users(/.*)?, /etc/selinux/([^/]*/)?setrans\.conf, /etc/selinux(/.*)?, /etc/selinux/([^/]*/)?seusers

.EX
.PP
.B selinux_munin_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the selinux_munin_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the selinux_munin_plugin_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B selinux_munin_plugin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the selinux_munin_plugin_tmp_t type, if you want to store selinux munin plugin temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B selinux_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the selinux_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the selinux files under the /var/lib directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux selinux policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their selinux processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for selinux:

.EX
.B selinux_munin_plugin_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), selinux(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)