.TH  "services_selinux"  "8"  "services" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "services SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
services_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the services processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the services processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux services policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their services processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for services:


.EX
.B services_munin_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the services_munin_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the services_munin_plugin_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/share/munin/plugins/nut.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/named, /usr/share/munin/plugins/varnish_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/tomcat_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/postgres_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/asterisk_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/lpstat, /usr/share/munin/plugins/mysql_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/slapd_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/apache_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/ping_, /usr/share/munin/plugins/squid_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/fail2ban, /usr/share/munin/plugins/openvpn, /usr/share/munin/plugins/snmp_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/samba, /usr/share/munin/plugins/ntp_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/http_loadtime
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.


.EX
.B services_munin_plugin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the services_munin_plugin_tmp_t type, if you want to store services munin plugin temporary files in the /tmp directories.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), services(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
