.TH  "slapd_selinux"  "8"  "slapd" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "slapd SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
slapd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the slapd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"




.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux slapd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their slapd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for slapd:


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_cert_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_cert_t type, if you want to treat the files as slapd certificate data.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_db_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_db_t type, if you want to treat the files as slapd database content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/openldap/slapd\.d(/.*)?, /var/lib/ldap(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B slapd_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_etc_t type, if you want to store slapd files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the slapd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the slapd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_keytab_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_keytab_t type, if you want to treat the files as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as slapd lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as slapd log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_replog_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_replog_t type, if you want to treat the files as slapd replog data.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_tmp_t type, if you want to store slapd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_tmpfs_t type, if you want to store slapd files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as slapd unit content.


.EX
.PP
.B slapd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the slapd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the slapd files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/run/slapd\.args, /var/run/openldap(/.*)?, /var/run/slapd\.pid, /var/run/ldapi, /var/run/slapd.*

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux slapd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their slapd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for slapd:

.EX
.B slapd_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), slapd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
