.TH  "spamass_selinux"  "8"  "spamass" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "spamass SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
spamass_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the spamass processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the spamass processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  spamass policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run spamass with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow user spamassassin clients to use the network, you must turn on the spamassassin_can_network boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P spamassassin_can_network 1
.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux spamass policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their spamass processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for spamass:


.EX
.PP
.B spamass_milter_data_t 
.EE

- Set files with the spamass_milter_data_t type, if you want to treat the files as spamass milter content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/spool/postfix/spamass(/.*)?, /var/run/spamass(/.*)?, /var/run/spamass-milter(/.*)?, /var/run/spamass-milter\.pid

.EX
.PP
.B spamass_milter_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the spamass_milter_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the spamass_milter_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B spamass_milter_state_t 
.EE

- Set files with the spamass_milter_state_t type, if you want to treat the files as spamass milter state data.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux spamass policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their spamass processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for spamass:

.EX
.B spamass_milter_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), spamass(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)