.TH  "squid_selinux"  "8"  "squid" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "squid Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
squid_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the squid processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the squid processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux squid policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their squid processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for squid:


.EX
.B squid_cache_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_cache_t context, if you want to store the files under the /var/cache directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/cache/squid(/.*)?, /var/spool/squid(/.*)?, /var/squidGuard(/.*)?

.EX
.B squid_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_conf_t context, if you want to treat the files as squid configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
Paths: 
/etc/squid(/.*)?, /usr/share/squid(/.*)?

.EX
.B squid_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the squid_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/usr/sbin/squid

.EX
.B squid_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the squid_initrc_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/squid

.EX
.B squid_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as squid log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/log/squid(/.*)?, /var/log/squidGuard(/.*)?

.EX
.B squid_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store squid files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B squid_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the squid_var_run_t context, if you want to store the squid files under the /run directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/run/squid\.pid
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  squid policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run squid with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow squid to run as a transparent proxy (TPROXY, you must turn on the squid_use_tproxy boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P squid_use_tproxy 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow squid to connect to all ports, not just HTTP, FTP, and Gopher ports, you must turn on the squid_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P squid_connect_any 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), squid(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)