.TH  "sshd_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "sshd Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
sshd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the sshd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the sshd processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux sshd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their sshd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for sshd:


.EX
.B sshd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sshd_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the sshd_t domain.


.EX
.B sshd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sshd_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the sshd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.B sshd_key_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sshd_key_t context, if you want to treat the files as sshd key data.


.EX
.B sshd_keytab_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sshd_keytab_t context, if you want to treat the files as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.B sshd_tmpfs_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sshd_tmpfs_t context, if you want to store sshd files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.B sshd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the sshd_var_run_t context, if you want to store the sshd files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  sshd policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run sshd with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow ssh with chroot env to read and write files in the user home directorie, you must turn on the ssh_chroot_rw_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_chroot_rw_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ssh logins as sysadm_r:sysadm_, you must turn on the ssh_sysadm_login boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_sysadm_login 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow host key based authenticatio, you must turn on the allow_ssh_keysign boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P allow_ssh_keysign 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow fenced domain to execute ssh, you must turn on the fenced_can_ssh boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fenced_can_ssh 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow internal-sftp to read and write files in the user ssh home directories, you must turn on the sftpd_write_ssh_home boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P sftpd_write_ssh_home 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), sshd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)