.TH  "system_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "system Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
system_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the system processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the system processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux system policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their system processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for system:


.EX
.B system_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_conf_t context, if you want to treat the files as system configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.


.EX
.B system_cron_spool_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cron_spool_t context, if you want to store the system cron files under the /var/spool directory.


.EX
.B system_cronjob_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_lock_t context, if you want to treat the files as system cronjob lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.B system_cronjob_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_tmp_t context, if you want to store system cronjob temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B system_cronjob_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the system cronjob files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.B system_cronjob_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_var_run_t context, if you want to store the system cronjob files under the /run directory.


.EX
.B system_dbusd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_dbusd_tmp_t context, if you want to store system dbusd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B system_dbusd_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_dbusd_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the system dbusd files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.B system_dbusd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_dbusd_var_run_t context, if you want to store the system dbusd files under the /run directory.


.EX
.B system_mail_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_mail_tmp_t context, if you want to store system mail temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B system_map_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_map_t context, if you want to treat the files as system map data.


.EX
.B system_munin_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_munin_plugin_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the system_munin_plugin_t domain.


.EX
.B system_munin_plugin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_munin_plugin_tmp_t context, if you want to store system munin plugin temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B systemd_logger_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logger_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the systemd_logger_t domain.


.EX
.B systemd_logind_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logind_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the systemd_logind_t domain.


.EX
.B systemd_logind_sessions_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logind_sessions_t context, if you want to treat the files as systemd logind sessions data.


.EX
.B systemd_logind_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logind_var_run_t context, if you want to store the systemd logind files under the /run directory.


.EX
.B systemd_notify_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_notify_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the systemd_notify_t domain.


.EX
.B systemd_passwd_agent_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_passwd_agent_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the systemd_passwd_agent_t domain.


.EX
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_passwd_var_run_t context, if you want to store the systemd passwd files under the /run directory.


.EX
.B systemd_systemctl_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_systemctl_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the systemd_systemctl_t domain.


.EX
.B systemd_tmpfiles_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_tmpfiles_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the systemd_tmpfiles_t domain.


.EX
.B systemd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_unit_file_t context, if you want to treat the files as systemd unit content.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  system policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run system with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to access cifs file systems, you must turn on the git_system_use_cifs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_cifs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to search home directories, you must turn on the git_system_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to access nfs file systems, you must turn on the git_system_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable support for systemd as the init program, you must turn on the init_systemd boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P init_systemd 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), system(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)