.TH  "systemd_selinux"  "8"  "systemd" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "systemd SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
systemd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the systemd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"


SELinux Linux secures
.B systemd
(SELinux policy for systemd components)
processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  



.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  systemd policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run systemd with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to access cifs file systems, you must turn on the git_system_use_cifs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_cifs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to search home directories, you must turn on the git_system_enable_homedirs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_enable_homedirs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow Git daemon system to access nfs file systems, you must turn on the git_system_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P git_system_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to enable support for systemd as the init program, you must turn on the init_systemd boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P init_systemd 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux systemd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their systemd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for systemd:


.EX
.PP
.B system_conf_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_conf_t type, if you want to treat the files as system configuration data, usually stored under the /etc directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/sysctl\.conf(\.old)?, /etc/sysconfig/ipvsadm.*, /etc/sysconfig/ebtables.*, /etc/sysconfig/ip6?tables.*, /etc/sysconfig/system-config-firewall.*

.EX
.PP
.B system_cron_spool_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cron_spool_t type, if you want to store the system cron files under the /var/spool directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/etc/crontab, /var/spool/anacron(/.*)?, /etc/cron\.d(/.*)?, /var/spool/fcron/systab\.orig, /var/spool/fcron/new\.systab, /var/spool/fcron/systab

.EX
.PP
.B system_cronjob_lock_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as system cronjob lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B system_cronjob_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_tmp_t type, if you want to store system cronjob temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B system_cronjob_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the system cronjob files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B system_cronjob_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_cronjob_var_run_t type, if you want to store the system cronjob files under the /run directory.


.EX
.PP
.B system_dbusd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_dbusd_tmp_t type, if you want to store system dbusd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B system_dbusd_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_dbusd_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the system dbusd files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B system_dbusd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_dbusd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the system dbusd files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/named/chroot/var/run/dbus(/.*)?, /var/run/dbus(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B system_mail_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_mail_tmp_t type, if you want to store system mail temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B system_map_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_map_t type, if you want to treat the files as system map data.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/boot/System\.map(-.*)?, /boot/efi(/.*)?/System\.map(-.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B system_munin_plugin_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_munin_plugin_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the system_munin_plugin_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/share/munin/plugins/proc_pri, /usr/share/munin/plugins/swap, /usr/share/munin/plugins/interrupts, /usr/share/munin/plugins/cpu.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/yum, /usr/share/munin/plugins/load, /usr/share/munin/plugins/irqstats, /usr/share/munin/plugins/processes, /usr/share/munin/plugins/iostat.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/nfs.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/munin_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/threads, /usr/share/munin/plugins/netstat, /usr/share/munin/plugins/acpi, /usr/share/munin/plugins/forks, /usr/share/munin/plugins/uptime, /usr/share/munin/plugins/users, /usr/share/munin/plugins/memory, /usr/share/munin/plugins/if_.*, /usr/share/munin/plugins/open_files

.EX
.PP
.B system_munin_plugin_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the system_munin_plugin_tmp_t type, if you want to store system munin plugin temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B systemd_logger_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logger_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the systemd_logger_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/lib/systemd/systemd-logger, /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-logger

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_logind_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logind_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the systemd_logind_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/lib/systemd/systemd-logind, /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-logind

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_logind_sessions_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logind_sessions_t type, if you want to treat the files as systemd logind sessions data.


.EX
.PP
.B systemd_logind_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_logind_var_run_t type, if you want to store the systemd logind files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/run/systemd/users(/.*)?, /var/run/systemd/seats(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_notify_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_notify_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the systemd_notify_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/bin/systemd-notify, /bin/systemd-notify

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_passwd_agent_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_passwd_agent_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the systemd_passwd_agent_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/bin/systemd-tty-ask-password-agent, /usr/bin/systemd-gnome-ask-password-agent, /usr/bin/systemd-tty-ask-password-agent

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_passwd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the systemd passwd files under the /run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?, /var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_systemctl_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_systemctl_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the systemd_systemctl_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/bin/systemctl, /bin/systemctl

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_tmpfiles_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_tmpfiles_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the systemd_tmpfiles_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/bin/systemd-tmpfiles, /bin/systemd-tmpfiles, /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-tmpfiles, /lib/systemd/systemd-tmpfiles

.EX
.PP
.B systemd_unit_file_t 
.EE

- Set files with the systemd_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as systemd unit content.

.br
.TP 5
Paths: 
/usr/lib/systemd/system(/.*)?, /lib/systemd/system(/.*)?

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux systemd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their systemd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for systemd:

.EX
.B system_munin_plugin_t, systemd_logger_t, systemd_logind_t, system_cronjob_t, systemd_notify_t, system_mail_t, systemd_passwd_agent_t, system_dbusd_t, systemd_tmpfiles_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), systemd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)