.TH  "tor_selinux"  "8"  "tor" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "tor Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
tor_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the tor processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the tor processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux tor policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their tor processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for tor:


.EX
.B tor_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the tor_etc_t context, if you want to store tor files in the /etc directories.

.br
Path: 
/etc/tor(/.*)?

.EX
.B tor_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the tor_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the tor_t domain.

.br
Paths: 
/usr/sbin/tor, /usr/bin/tor

.EX
.B tor_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the tor_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the tor_initrc_t domain.

.br
Path: 
/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/tor

.EX
.B tor_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the tor_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the tor files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
Paths: 
/var/lib/tor(/.*)?, /var/lib/tor-data(/.*)?

.EX
.B tor_var_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the tor_var_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as tor var log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/log/tor(/.*)?

.EX
.B tor_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the tor_var_run_t context, if you want to store the tor files under the /run directory.

.br
Path: 
/var/run/tor(/.*)?
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  tor policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run tor with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow tor daemon to bind tcp sockets to all unreserved ports, you must turn on the tor_bind_all_unreserved_ports boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P tor_bind_all_unreserved_ports 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), tor(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)