.TH  "user_wine_selinux"  "8"  "13-01-16" "user_wine" "SELinux Policy documentation for user_wine"
.SH "NAME"
user_wine_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the user_wine processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the user_wine processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The user_wine processes execute with the user_wine_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep user_wine_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The user_wine_t SELinux type can be entered via the \fBuser_home_t, wine_exec_t, xsession_exec_t\fP file types.

The default entrypoint paths for the user_wine_t domain are the following:

/home/[^/]*/.+, /home/pwalsh/.+, /home/dwalsh/.+, /var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/.+, /usr/bin/wine.*, /opt/teamviewer(/.*)?/bin/wine.*, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/wdi, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/wine.*, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/msiexec, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/notepad, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/progman, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/regedit, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/regsvr32, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/Picasa3/.*exe, /opt/google/picasa(/.*)?/bin/uninstaller, /opt/cxoffice/bin/wine.*, /opt/picasa/wine/bin/wine.*, /usr/bin/msiexec, /usr/bin/notepad, /usr/bin/regedit, /usr/bin/regsvr32, /usr/bin/uninstaller, /home/[^/]*/cxoffice/bin/wine.+, /home/pwalsh/cxoffice/bin/wine.+, /home/dwalsh/cxoffice/bin/wine.+, /var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/cxoffice/bin/wine.+, /etc/gdm(3)?/Xsession, /etc/kde[34]?/kdm/Xreset, /etc/gdm(3)?/PreSession/.*, /etc/kde[34]?/kdm/Xstartup, /etc/kde[34]?/kdm/Xsession, /etc/gdm(3)?/PostSession/.*, /etc/X11/[wx]dm/Xreset.*, /etc/X11/[wxg]dm/Xsession, /etc/X11/Xsession[^/]*, /etc/X11/wdm/Xsetup.*, /etc/X11/wdm/Xstartup.*
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux user_wine policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their user_wine processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for user_wine:

.EX
.B user_wine_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a user_wine_t
can be used to make the process type user_wine_t permissive. SELinux does not deny access to permissive process types, but the AVC (SELinux denials) messages are still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  user_wine policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run user_wine with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd server, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sysadm to debug or ptrace all processes, you must turn on the deny_ptrace boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on the domain_fd_use boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to have the kernel load modules, you must turn on the domain_kernel_load_modules boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modules 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to execute in fips_mode, you must turn on the fips_mode boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to enable reading of urandom for all domains, you must turn on the global_ssp boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow logging in and using the system from /dev/console, you must turn on the login_console_enabled boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P login_console_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to control the ability to mmap a low area of the address space, as configured by /proc/sys/kernel/mmap_min_addr, you must turn on the mmap_low_allowed boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P mmap_low_allowed 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NIS, you must turn on the nis_enabled boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to use nscd shared memory, you must turn on the nscd_use_shm boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to disallow programs, such as newrole, from transitioning to administrative user domains, you must turn on the secure_mode boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P secure_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow regular users direct dri device access, you must turn on the selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_direct_dri_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to connect to PostgreSQL, you must turn on the selinuxuser_postgresql_connect_enabled boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_postgresql_connect_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow user to r/w files on filesystems that do not have extended attributes (FAT, CDROM, FLOPPY), you must turn on the selinuxuser_rw_noexattrfile boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_rw_noexattrfile 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to run TCP servers (bind to ports and accept connection from the same domain and outside users)  disabling this forces FTP passive mode and may change other protocols, you must turn on the selinuxuser_tcp_server boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_tcp_server 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow user music sharing, you must turn on the selinuxuser_user_share_music boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_user_share_music 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow ssh logins as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on the ssh_sysadm_login boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P ssh_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support NFS home directories, you must turn on the use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on the use_samba_home_dirs boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the graphical login program to login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on the xdm_sysadm_login boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allows clients to write to the X server shared memory segments, you must turn on the xserver_clients_write_xshm boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_clients_write_xshm 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support X userspace object manager, you must turn on the xserver_object_manager boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd server for the user_wine_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the user_wine_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type user_wine_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B cgroup_t

	/cgroup
.br
	/sys/fs/cgroup
.br

.br
.B chrome_sandbox_tmpfs_t


.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B games_data_t

	/var/games(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/games(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gpg_agent_tmp_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.gnupg/log-socket
.br

.br
.B iceauth_home_t

	/root/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/root/\.ICEauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ICEauthority.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.ICEauthority.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.ICEauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.DCOP.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.ICEauthority.*
.br

.br
.B mail_spool_t

	/var/mail(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/imap(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/mail(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B mqueue_spool_t

	/var/spool/(client)?mqueue(/.*)?
.br
	/var/spool/mqueue\.in(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B nfsd_rw_t


.br
.B noxattrfs

	all files on file systems which do not support extended attributes
.br

.br
.B usbfs_t


.br
.B user_fonts_cache_t

	/root/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/root/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.fontconfig(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.fonts/auto(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.fonts\.cache-.*
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_t

	/root/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.font-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_home_type

	all user home files
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_type

	all user tmp files
.br

.br
.B user_tmpfs_type

	all user content in tmpfs file systems
.br

.br
.B xauth_home_t

	/root/\.xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.Xauthority.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmp_t

	/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.X0-lock
.br

.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage"
by Dan Walsh.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), user_wine(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), user_selinux(8), user_selinux(8), user_dbusd_selinux(8), user_gkeyringd_selinux(8), user_mail_selinux(8), user_screen_selinux(8), user_seunshare_selinux(8), user_ssh_agent_selinux(8), useradd_selinux(8), usernetctl_selinux(8)