.TH  "varnishd_selinux"  "8"  "varnishd" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "varnishd SELinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
varnishd_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the varnishd processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the varnishd processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  varnishd policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run varnishd with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow varnishd to connect to all ports, not just HTTP, you must turn on the varnishd_connect_any boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P varnishd_connect_any 1
.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a sssd serve for the varnishd_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the varnishd_t, you must turn on the allow_kerberos boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P allow_kerberos 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NI for the varnishd_t, you must turn on the allow_ypbind boolean.

.EX
setsebool -P allow_ypbind 1
.EE

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux varnishd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their varnishd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for varnishd:


.EX
.PP
.B varnishd_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the varnishd_etc_t type, if you want to store varnishd files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B varnishd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the varnishd_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the varnishd_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B varnishd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the varnishd_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the varnishd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B varnishd_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the varnishd_tmp_t type, if you want to store varnishd temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.PP
.B varnishd_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the varnishd_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the varnishd files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.PP
.B varnishd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the varnishd_var_run_t type, if you want to store the varnishd files under the /run directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports. 
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command: 

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports. 
SELinux varnishd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their varnishd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following port types are defined for varnishd:

.EX
.TP 5
.B varnishd_port_t 
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 6081-6082
.EE
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files. 
SELinux varnishd policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their varnishd processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following process types are defined for varnishd:

.EX
.B varnishd_t, varnishlog_t 
.EE
.PP
Note: 
.B semanage permissive -a PROCESS_TYPE 
can be used to make a process type permissive. Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was autogenerated by genman.py.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), varnishd(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)
, setsebool(8)