.TH  "virt_selinux"  "8"  "16 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "virt Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
virt_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the virt processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the virt processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux virt policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their virt processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for virt:


.EX
.B virt_bridgehelper_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_bridgehelper_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the virt_bridgehelper_t domain.


.EX
.B virt_cache_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_cache_t context, if you want to store the files in the /var/cache directories.


.EX
.B virt_content_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_content_t context, if you want to treat the files as virt content.


.EX
.B virt_etc_rw_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_etc_rw_t context, if you want to treat the files as virt etc read/write content.


.EX
.B virt_etc_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_etc_t context, if you want to store virt files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.B virt_home_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_home_t context, if you want to store virt files in the users home directory.


.EX
.B virt_image_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_image_t context, if you want to treat the files as virt image data.


.EX
.B virt_log_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_log_t context, if you want to treat the data as virt log data, usually stored in /var/log.


.EX
.B virt_qmf_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_qmf_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the virt_qmf_t domain.


.EX
.B virt_tmp_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_tmp_t context, if you want to store virt temporary files in the /tmp directories.


.EX
.B virt_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the virt files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.B virt_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virt_var_run_t context, if you want to store the virt files under the /run directory.


.EX
.B virtd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virtd_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the virtd_t domain.


.EX
.B virtd_initrc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virtd_initrc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the virtd_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.B virtd_keytab_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virtd_keytab_t context, if you want to treat the files as kerberos keytab files.


.EX
.B virtd_lxc_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virtd_lxc_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the virtd_lxc_t domain.


.EX
.B virtd_lxc_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the virtd_lxc_var_run_t context, if you want to store the virtd lxc files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  virt policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run virt with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to read fuse files, you must turn on the virt_use_fusefs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_fusefs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage nfs files, you must turn on the virt_use_nfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_nfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to use serial/parallel communication ports, you must turn on the virt_use_comm boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_comm 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to interact with the xserver, you must turn on the virt_use_xserver boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_xserver 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage device configuration, (pci), you must turn on the virt_use_sysfs boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_sysfs 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to use executable memory and executable stack, you must turn on the virt_use_execmem boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_execmem 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to interact with the sanlock, you must turn on the virt_use_sanlock boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_sanlock 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to use usb devices, you must turn on the virt_use_usb boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_usb 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined virtual guests to manage cifs files, you must turn on the virt_use_samba boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P virt_use_samba 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), virt(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)