.TH  "vnstat_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "vnstat Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
vnstat_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the vnstat processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the vnstat processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux vnstat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their vnstat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for vnstat:


.EX
.B vnstat_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the vnstat_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the vnstat_t domain.


.EX
.B vnstatd_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the vnstatd_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the vnstatd_t domain.


.EX
.B vnstatd_var_lib_t 
.EE

- Set files with the vnstatd_var_lib_t context, if you want to store the vnstatd files under the /var/lib directory.


.EX
.B vnstatd_var_run_t 
.EE

- Set files with the vnstatd_var_run_t context, if you want to store the vnstatd files under the /run directory.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), vnstat(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1)