.TH  "xdm_selinux"  "8"  "13-01-16" "xdm" "SELinux Policy documentation for xdm"
.SH "NAME"
xdm_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the xdm processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the xdm processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The xdm processes execute with the xdm_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep xdm_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The xdm_t SELinux type can be entered via the \fBxdm_exec_t, bin_t\fP file types.

The default entrypoint paths for the xdm_t domain are the following:

All executeables with the default executable label, usually stored in /usr/bin and /usr/sbin.
/usr/(s)?bin/gdm(3)?, /usr/(s)?bin/lightdm*, /usr/(s)?bin/[mxgkw]dm, /usr/(s)?bin/gdm-binary, /usr/(s)?bin/lxdm(-binary)?, /usr/X11R6/bin/[xgkw]dm, /usr/bin/slim, /usr/bin/gpe-dm, /opt/kde3/bin/kdm, /usr/sbin/mdm-binary, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/x11-common
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux xdm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their xdm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for xdm:

.EX
.B xdm_t, xdm_dbusd_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a xdm_t
can be used to make the process type xdm_t permissive. SELinux does not deny access to permissive process types, but the AVC (SELinux denials) messages are still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  xdm policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run xdm with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow the graphical login program to execute bootloader, you must turn on the xdm_exec_bootloader boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_exec_bootloader 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow the graphical login program to login directly as sysadm_r:sysadm_t, you must turn on the xdm_sysadm_login boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xdm_sysadm_login 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd server, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a radius server, you must turn on the authlogin_radius boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_radius 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow users to login using a yubikey  server, you must turn on the authlogin_yubikey boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_yubikey 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all daemons the ability to read/write terminals, you must turn on the daemons_use_tty boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P daemons_use_tty 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to deny user domains applications to map a memory region as both executable and writable, this is dangerous and the executable should be reported in bugzilla, you must turn on the deny_execmem boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_execmem 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow sysadm to debug or ptrace all processes, you must turn on the deny_ptrace boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P deny_ptrace 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to use other domains file descriptors, you must turn on the domain_fd_use boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_fd_use 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to have the kernel load modules, you must turn on the domain_kernel_load_modules boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P domain_kernel_load_modules 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow all domains to execute in fips_mode, you must turn on the fips_mode boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to enable reading of urandom for all domains, you must turn on the global_ssp boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P global_ssp 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NIS, you must turn on the nis_enabled boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to use nscd shared memory, you must turn on the nscd_use_shm boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nscd_use_shm 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to enable polyinstantiated directory support, you must turn on the polyinstantiation_enabled boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P polyinstantiation_enabled 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow unconfined executables to make their stack executable.  This should never, ever be necessary. Probably indicates a badly coded executable, but could indicate an attack. This executable should be reported in bugzilla, you must turn on the selinuxuser_execstack boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P selinuxuser_execstack 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support ecryptfs home directories, you must turn on the use_ecryptfs_home_dirs boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_ecryptfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support fusefs home directories, you must turn on the use_fusefs_home_dirs boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_fusefs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support NFS home directories, you must turn on the use_nfs_home_dirs boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_nfs_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support SAMBA home directories, you must turn on the use_samba_home_dirs boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to support X userspace object manager, you must turn on the xserver_object_manager boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P xserver_object_manager 1

.EE

.SH NSSWITCH DOMAIN

.PP
If you want to allow users to resolve user passwd entries directly from ldap rather then using a sssd server for the xdm_dbusd_t, xdm_t, you must turn on the authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P authlogin_nsswitch_use_ldap 1
.EE

.PP
If you want to allow confined applications to run with kerberos for the xdm_dbusd_t, xdm_t, you must turn on the kerberos_enabled boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P kerberos_enabled 1
.EE

.SH PORT TYPES
SELinux defines port types to represent TCP and UDP ports.
.PP
You can see the types associated with a port by using the following command:

.B semanage port -l

.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these ports.
SELinux xdm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their xdm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following port types are defined for xdm:

.EX
.TP 5
.B xdmcp_port_t
.TP 10
.EE


Default Defined Ports:
tcp 177
.EE
udp 177
.EE
.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type xdm_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B anon_inodefs_t


.br
.B auth_cache_t

	/var/cache/coolkey(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B auth_home_t

	/root/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/root/\.google_authenticator~
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.google_authenticator~
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.google_authenticator~
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.google_authenticator~
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.google_authenticator
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.google_authenticator~
.br

.br
.B cgroup_t

	/cgroup
.br
	/sys/fs/cgroup
.br

.br
.B cifs_t


.br
.B ecryptfs_t

	/home/[^/]*/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.Private(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.ecryptfs(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B etc_runtime_t

	/[^/]+
.br
	/etc/mtab.*
.br
	/etc/blkid(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/nologin.*
.br
	/etc/\.fstab\.hal\..+
.br
	/halt
.br
	/fastboot
.br
	/poweroff
.br
	/etc/cmtab
.br
	/forcefsck
.br
	/\.autofsck
.br
	/\.suspended
.br
	/fsckoptions
.br
	/\.autorelabel
.br
	/etc/securetty
.br
	/etc/nohotplug
.br
	/etc/killpower
.br
	/etc/ioctl\.save
.br
	/etc/fstab\.REVOKE
.br
	/etc/network/ifstate
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/hwconf
.br
	/etc/ptal/ptal-printd-like
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/iptables\.save
.br
	/etc/xorg\.conf\.d/00-system-setup-keyboard\.conf
.br
	/etc/X11/xorg\.conf\.d/00-system-setup-keyboard\.conf
.br

.br
.B faillog_t

	/var/log/btmp.*
.br
	/var/log/faillog.*
.br
	/var/log/tallylog.*
.br
	/var/run/faillock(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B fonts_cache_t

	/var/cache/fontconfig(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B fusefs_t


.br
.B gconf_home_t

	/root/\.local.*
.br
	/root/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.local.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.local.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.local.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.local.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.gconf(d)?(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B gnome_home_type


.br
.B initrc_var_run_t

	/var/run/utmp
.br
	/var/run/random-seed
.br
	/var/run/runlevel\.dir
.br
	/var/run/setmixer_flag
.br

.br
.B krb5_host_rcache_t

	/var/cache/krb5rcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/tmp/nfs_0
.br
	/var/tmp/DNS_25
.br
	/var/tmp/host_0
.br
	/var/tmp/imap_0
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_23
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_48
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_55
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_487
.br
	/var/tmp/ldapmap1_0
.br

.br
.B lastlog_t

	/var/log/lastlog.*
.br

.br
.B locale_t

	/etc/locale.conf
.br
	/etc/vconsole.conf
.br
	/usr/lib/locale(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/locale(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/zoneinfo(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/share/X11/locale(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/timezone
.br
	/etc/localtime
.br
	/etc/sysconfig/clock
.br
	/etc/avahi/etc/localtime
.br
	/var/empty/sshd/etc/localtime
.br
	/var/spool/postfix/etc/localtime
.br

.br
.B nfs_t


.br
.B pam_var_console_t

	/var/run/console(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B pam_var_run_t

	/var/(db|lib|adm)/sudo(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/sudo(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/sepermit(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pam_mount(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B security_t

	/selinux
.br

.br
.B sysfs_t

	/sys(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_fonts_t

	/root/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.font-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.fonts(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B user_tmp_t

	/var/run/user(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-.*
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-pwalsh
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-dwalsh
.br
	/tmp/gconfd-xguest
.br

.br
.B user_tmpfs_type

	all user content in tmpfs file systems
.br

.br
.B var_auth_t

	/var/ace(/.*)?
.br
	/var/rsa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/abl(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/rsa(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pam_ssh(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pam_ssh(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pam_shield(/.*)?
.br
	/var/opt/quest/vas/vasd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/google-authenticator(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B wtmp_t

	/var/log/wtmp.*
.br

.br
.B xauth_home_t

	/root/\.xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/root/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/root/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/pqsql/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/nxserver/home/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.xauth.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.Xauthority.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.Xauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.serverauth.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.Xauthority.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_home_t

	/root/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/root/\.xsession-errors.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?
.br
	/home/[^/]*/\.xsession-errors.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?
.br
	/home/pwalsh/\.xsession-errors.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?
.br
	/home/dwalsh/\.xsession-errors.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.dmrc.*
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.xsession-errors.*
.br

.br
.B xdm_lock_t


.br
.B xdm_log_t

	/var/log/[mkwx]dm\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/mdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/lxdm\.log.*
.br
	/var/log/slim\.log
.br

.br
.B xdm_rw_etc_t

	/etc/X11/wdm(/.*)?
.br
	/etc/opt/VirtualGL(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xdm_spool_t

	/var/spool/[mg]dm(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmp_t

	/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp/\.X0-lock
.br

.br
.B xdm_tmpfs_t


.br
.B xdm_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/[mxkwg]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/[mg]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/gdm(3)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/lxdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/cache/lightdm(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B xdm_var_run_t

	/etc/kde[34]?/kdm/backgroundrc
.br
	/var/run/[kgm]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/gdm(3)?\.pid
.br
	/usr/lib/qt-.*/etc/settings(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/slim.*
.br
	/var/run/lxdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/slim(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/xauth(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/xdmctl(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/multi-session-x(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/xdm\.pid
.br
	/var/run/lxdm\.pid
.br
	/var/run/lxdm\.auth
.br
	/var/run/gdm_socket
.br

.br
.B xkb_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/xkb(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xkb/.*
.br
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xkb
.br

.br
.B xserver_log_t

	/var/[xgkw]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/var/[xgkw]dm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/gdm(3)?(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/Xorg.*
.br
	/var/log/XFree86.*
.br
	/var/log/lightdm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/log/nvidia-installer\.log.*
.br

.br
.B xserver_tmpfs_t


.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux xdm policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their xdm processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B EQUIVALENCE DIRECTORIES

.PP
xdm policy stores data with multiple different file context types under the /var/run/lxdm directory.  If you would like to store the data in a different directory you can use the semanage command to create an equivalence mapping.  If you wanted to store this data under the /srv dirctory you would execute the following command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/run/lxdm /srv/lxdm
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/lxdm
.PP

.PP
xdm policy stores data with multiple different file context types under the /var/run/slim directory.  If you would like to store the data in a different directory you can use the semanage command to create an equivalence mapping.  If you wanted to store this data under the /srv dirctory you would execute the following command:
.PP
.B semanage fcontext -a -e /var/run/slim /srv/slim
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/slim
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines the file context types for the xdm, if you wanted to
store files with these types in a diffent paths, you need to execute the semanage command to sepecify alternate labeling and then use restorecon to put the labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t xdm_etc_t '/srv/xdm/content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myxdm_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions to specify labels that match multiple files.

.I The following file types are defined for xdm:


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_etc_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_etc_t type, if you want to store xdm files in the /etc directories.


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the xdm_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/(s)?bin/gdm(3)?, /usr/(s)?bin/lightdm*, /usr/(s)?bin/[mxgkw]dm, /usr/(s)?bin/gdm-binary, /usr/(s)?bin/lxdm(-binary)?, /usr/X11R6/bin/[xgkw]dm, /usr/bin/slim, /usr/bin/gpe-dm, /opt/kde3/bin/kdm, /usr/sbin/mdm-binary, /etc/rc\.d/init\.d/x11-common

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_home_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_home_t type, if you want to store xdm files in the users home directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/root/\.dmrc.*, /root/\.xsession-errors.*, /home/[^/]*/\.dmrc.*, /home/[^/]*/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?, /home/[^/]*/\.xsession-errors.*, /home/pwalsh/\.dmrc.*, /home/pwalsh/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?, /home/pwalsh/\.xsession-errors.*, /home/dwalsh/\.dmrc.*, /home/dwalsh/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?, /home/dwalsh/\.xsession-errors.*, /var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.dmrc.*, /var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.cache/gdm(/.*)?, /var/lib/xguest/home/xguest/\.xsession-errors.*

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_lock_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_lock_t type, if you want to treat the files as xdm lock data, stored under the /var/lock directory


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_log_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as xdm log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/log/[mkwx]dm\.log.*, /var/log/mdm(/.*)?, /var/log/lxdm\.log.*, /var/log/slim\.log

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_rw_etc_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_rw_etc_t type, if you want to store xdm rw files in the /etc directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/X11/wdm(/.*)?, /etc/opt/VirtualGL(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_spool_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_spool_t type, if you want to store the xdm files under the /var/spool directory.


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_tmp_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_tmp_t type, if you want to store xdm temporary files in the /tmp directories.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/tmp/\.X11-unix(/.*)?, /tmp/\.ICE-unix(/.*)?, /tmp/\.X0-lock

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_tmpfs_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_tmpfs_t type, if you want to store xdm files on a tmpfs file system.


.EX
.PP
.B xdm_unconfined_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_unconfined_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the xdm_unconfined_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/[mg]dm/Init(/.*)?, /etc/[mg]dm/PostLogin(/.*)?, /etc/[mg]dm/PreSession(/.*)?, /etc/[mg]dm/PostSession(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the xdm files under the /var/lib directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/var/lib/[mxkwg]dm(/.*)?, /var/cache/[mg]dm(/.*)?, /var/lib/gdm(3)?(/.*)?, /var/lib/lxdm(/.*)?, /var/lib/lightdm(/.*)?, /var/cache/lightdm(/.*)?

.EX
.PP
.B xdm_var_run_t
.EE

- Set files with the xdm_var_run_t type, if you want to store the xdm files under the /run or /var/run directory.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/etc/kde[34]?/kdm/backgroundrc, /var/run/[kgm]dm(/.*)?, /var/run/gdm(3)?\.pid, /usr/lib/qt-.*/etc/settings(/.*)?, /var/run/slim.*, /var/run/lxdm(/.*)?, /var/run/slim(/.*)?, /var/run/xauth(/.*)?, /var/run/xdmctl(/.*)?, /var/run/lightdm(/.*)?, /var/run/systemd/multi-session-x(/.*)?, /var/run/xdm\.pid, /var/run/lxdm\.pid, /var/run/lxdm\.auth, /var/run/gdm_socket

.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage port
can also be used to manipulate the port definitions

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage"
by Dan Walsh.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), xdm(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8)
, setsebool(8), xdm_dbusd_selinux(8)