.TH  "zos_selinux"  "8"  "20 Feb 2012" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "zos Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
zos_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the zos processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the zos processes via flexible mandatory access
control.  
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type. 
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files. 
SELinux zos policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their zos processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP 
The following file types are defined for zos:


.EX
.B zos_remote_exec_t 
.EE

- Set files with the zos_remote_exec_t context, if you want to a executable to transition to the zos_remote_t domain.

Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanantly change the file context you need to use the 
.B semanage fcontext 
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  zos policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run zos with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow BIND to write the master zone files. Generally this is used for dynamic DNS or zone transfers, you must turn on the named_write_master_zones boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P named_write_master_zones 1
.EE

.SH SHARING FILES
If you want to share files with multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a file context of public_content_t and public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of the above domains to read the content.  If you want a particular domain to write to the public_content_rw_t domain, you must set the appropriate boolean.
.TP
Allow zos servers to read the /var/zos directory by adding the public_content_t file type to the directory and by restoring the file type.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_t "/var/zos(/.*)?"
.TP
.B
restorecon -F -R -v /var/zos
.pp
.TP
Allow zos servers to read and write /var/tmp/incoming by adding the public_content_rw_t type to the directory and by restoring the file type.  This also requires the allow_zosd_anon_write boolean to be set.
.PP
.B
semanage fcontext -a -t public_content_rw_t "/var/zos/incoming(/.*)?"
.TP
.B
restorecon -F -R -v /var/zos/incoming


.PP
If you want to allow ZoneMinder to modify public files used for public file transfer services., you must turn on the zoneminder_anon_write boolean.

.EX
.B setsebool -P zoneminder_anon_write 1
.EE

.SH "COMMANDS"

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux 
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR	
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), zos(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), setsebool(8)