= SETroubleshoot Developer FAQ =

----
[[PageOutline(2-6,,inline)]]
----
== RPC ==

=== Why does SETroubleShoot use RPC? ===

SETroubleshoot is composed of two fundamental parts. A system daemon
(setroubleshootd) running with root privlegesm, often referred to as
the server and 1 or more clients which connect to the setroubleshootd
server to receive notifications of new AVC denials and query the
history of AVC denials on a particular node.

The daemon (server) needs to exist for two fundamental reasons: It
needs to run with root priveldges to interact with the audit system,
perform system operations, and then to isolate the information it
manages from user level processes.  In addition by acting as a server
on a particular node it is possible to build a distributed system
whereby remote clients can connect to multiple nodes to listen for
alerts or query their alert history.

Initially only the client is sealert. sealert can operate either as a
desktop GUI component or a command line tool.

One can think of the server (setroubleshootd) as the process which
manages data and the client (sealert) as the process which presents
the data. Because they are two seperate processes, possibly running on
different nodes, they communnicate via RPC.

=== What RPC mechanism does SETroubleshoot use and why? ===

SETroubleshoot uses it's own RPC based on XML documents exchanged over
a socket connection.

But the world is full of RPC mechansisms, many of which are
standardized, why invent a new private mechanism when instead you
could use SOAP, DBUS, XML_RPC, etc.?

Because there were several requirements which prompted this decision:

* setroubleshoot should not depend on packages which are not normally
  installed, in other words it should be mostly self contained and the
  installation should be minimal. For example the Twisted python
  library is an excellent RPC toolset, but it is large and not a
  standard package, therefore it fails this requirement.

* The server and client work best together when the link between them
  is:

  * persistent (best for sending/receiving asynchronous alerts)

  * asynchronous (there should be no blocking, no order dependency)

  * bidirectional (either the client or server should be able to
    intiate communication and receive a response)

  * stateful (each communication link maintains information on each
    end of the link about the properties and state of the link). Such
    information includes:

    * session information (e.g. logged on user and type of session)

    * connection pool (set of connected clients and their sessions)

    * state of asyncronous transactions (e.g. what transactions have
      been initiated, what state are they in, how does one map an
      asynchronous transaction to an action at the receiving end).

=== The internal RPC uses XML, why not just use XML-RPC? ===

* XML-RPC is not persistent

* XML-RPC is not asynchronous

* XML-RPC is not stateful

* XML-RPC requires both the ends of the link to implement both a
  client and a server if one wants bidirectionality and somehow link
  them together (at that point ease of use is lost).

* XML-RPC is targeted to simple data types, passing complex objects
  requires an additional layer bolted on top of XML-RPC (one quickly
  loses the XML-RPC simplicity advantage)

=== DBUS ===

DBUS has nice python bindings and it is well supported. Why not use
DBUS as the RPC mechanism?

Because DBUS currently only supports local interprocess
communication on one node, this is its design center.

But setroubleshoot currently uses DBUS, why is it used for some things
and not others, more to the point, if you're using DBUS already why
introduce a private RPC mechanism?

DBUS is used for the desktop GUI component (sealert). It's use in this
context makes perfect sense because DBUS has at it's heart facilities
for managing items in a user's desktop session. In particular DBUS
provides easy ways to automatically launch programs, treat a program
as a service provider for the login session, etc. The GUI desktop
component of setroubleshoot (sealert) benefits from it's integration
with the desktop session, but this is independent of the issue of
where and how the AVC alert information is derived from. By analogy a
web browser benefits from DBUS integration on the desktop but its data
commuication remains HTTP to remote nodes.

=== What is the data channel between the client and server? ===

The connection is a socket. By default the socket is a local UNIX
domain socket for enhanced security. However, it is trival to
configure the client/server code to use INET sockets instead to
accomodate remote connections. The vast bulk of the code is agnostic
with regards to the socket type.

=== What is the protocol between the client and server? ===

The protocol is a very simple text based protocol similar to
HTTP. Each transaction consists of a header and a body.

The header is a series of key/value pairs (e.g. fields). Keys start at
the beginning of a line and may not contain whitespace or a colon
(:). The key is seperated from its value by a colon (:) and is
terminated by a line ending. Line endings are carriage return, newline
pairs.

The header is seperated from the body by a blank line.

The header MUST contain a content-length field which is the octet
count of the body (beginning after the blank line seperating the
header from the body).

Fields in the header may be appear in any order.

No information is provided which declares the size of the header. The
header MUST declare the size of the body with a content-length
field. The receiving end reads a header until it sees a blank line
demarking the header from the body. At this point the receiving end
knows the exact body octet count which must then be read to consume
the entire body. After the body has been read the receiving end
interprets subsequent octets as the header of the next transaction,
thus it always knows the boundary between transactions.

==== What are the RPC header fields? ====

* content-length: The mandatory octet count of the body

* type: The RPC transaction type, may be one of: method,
  method_return, signal, or error_return

* rpc_id: an identifier unique to the session which maps
  a specific instance of a method call to either the method return
  values or returned error information.

=== What types of RPC transactions are there? ===

* method: An RPC call with one or more return values

* method_return: An RPC call with the return values from a previous
  RPC method call. This is best thought of as a
  "callback". Callbacks have their own argument list (e.g. method
  signature) completely independent of the signature of its matching
  method. 

* signal: An RPC call which does not return any values (e.g. a one
  way event)

* error_return: An RPC call whose signature is (method_name,
  err_code, err_msg).

=== Are RPC calls synchronous or asynchronous? ===

RPC calls are always asynchronous. Eliminating blocking and handling
RPC transactions as part of a larger event loop vastly simplifies
large parts of the code and offers tremendous flexibility (e.g. event
driven model). There is no support for synchronous RPC calls.

=== How do I get a return values from a RPC call? ===

RPC methods return an async_rpc object which implements the
add_callback() and add_errback() methods. Immediately after calling
the RPC command one can use the returned object to attach any number
of callback or error handlers to the command. At some point in the
future the RPC command will return either its return values or in the
case of a failure error information. When the return information
arrives the RPC implementation looks up the object belonging to the
call and calls each attached callback if the method succeeded, or each
attached errback if the method failed.

Here is a code example:

{{{
#!python
def get_flag(flag_name):

    def get_flag_callback(flag_value):
        print "flag %s = %s" % (flag_name, flag_value)

    def get_flag_error(method, errno, strerror):
        print "%s ERROR: error code = %d, message = %s" % (method, errno, strerror)

    async_rpc = foo.get_flag(item, flag_name)
    async_rpc.add_callback(get_flag_callback)
    async_rpc.add_errback(get_flag_error)
}}}

This will call the get_flag method on object which implements the RPC
interface which defines the get_flag() method. In this example 'foo'
is an object exporting that interface.

At some point in the future when control returns to the main event
loop either the function get_flag_callback() or get_flag_error() will
be called.

Note: Because Python implements "function closure" one may nest
functions (e.g. inner functions). When this is done values are "bound"
in the inner function when the outer function is invoked. Thus any
value which is in the scope of the outer function may be referenced in
the inner function when the inner function is invoked.

In our example flag_name is defined in the outer get_flag() function and
referenced in the inner get_flag_callback() function. Whenever the
inner callback is invoked in the future the value of flag_value will
be whatever it was when the rpc method was invoked. This is very
handy, it means your callback maintains variable state, if you need to
reference something in your callback you can and be confident it will
be unique to that callback instance. Even if we called get_flag()
twice in a row passing "foo" and "bar" as the flag_name parameter
before either of the callbacks were invoked the first instance of
get_flag_callback would have flag_name bound to "foo" and the second
instance would have flag_name bound to "bar".

=== How are errors handled in RPC calls? ===

All RPC calls are assumed to succeed. Errors are never part of the
normal return values. Instead, if a RPC call generates an error a
seperate callback is invoked known as the errback. Thus when calling
an RPC method you may attach a normal callback to it and/or a callback
to handle an error, the two are distinct. When the RPC returns either
the attached callbacks are going to be invoked if it is successful or
the attached errbacks are going to be invoked if it failed.

All errbacks have identical function signatures:

{{{
#!python
  def errback(method, errno, strerror):
}}}

The method parameter will be the name of the method which induced the
error, the errno parameter will be a numeric error code, and strerror
will be a string describing the error).

The method name parameter in the errback is a convenience, it does not
tell you which particular instance of an RPC method call failed, just
the name of the method. If you need to know the particular instance
recall there is an exact one-to-mapping when you bind an errback to a
RPC call via the add_errback() method. This binding is identical to
add_callback() and all the issues relative to binding scope described
for callbacks apply to the errback as well. If you need to know the
exact instance just make sure there is something in the binding scope
of the errback which uniquely identifies it, for instance an object
reference.

=== How are the signatures (parameter lists) of RPC methods defined? ===

Each RPC call is a member of an RPC interface. Each method in an RPC
interface must have a name unique within that interface. Different
interfaces may have method names in common.

The definitions of RPC methods, signals, and callbacks are done using
Python decorators. A decorator is a python function preceded by an "at
sign" (@). Python functions or methods which have been "decoratated"
have one or more decorators immediately preceding their def statement.

Our RPC implementation defines 3 decorators (in 
[source:src/rpc.py])

* def rpc_method(interface):

* def rpc_callback(interface, method):

* def rpc_arg_type(interface, *arg_types):

When a method is decorated with @rpc_method() it is saying "this method
is a member of the interface". It's parameter list is defined by the
python method that was decorated.

Optionally we may define the type of each parameter via the
@rpc_arg_type() decorator. After the interface defintion comes a list
of Python types, one for every parameter. If the @rpc_arg_type()
decorator is absent the parameters default to being of type string.

If the RPC call is a method (as opposed to a signal) it must have
one or more return values. Return values are passed back via a
callback so it is natural to define them as a parameter list to the
callback function. The @rpc_callback() decorator says "this is the
callback signature for a method in an interface" Just like the
@rpc_method() decorator it may optionally be associated with
@rpc_arg_type() decorator to define the parameter types.

The RPC interfaces used in setroubleshoot are defined in
[source:src/rpc_interfaces.py]

Here is an example which illustrates the concepts:

{{{
#!python
    @rpc_method('SETroubleshootServer')
    def database_bind(self, database_name):
        pass

    @rpc_callback('SETroubleshootServer', 'database_bind')
    @rpc_arg_type('SETroubleshootServer', SEDatabaseProperties)
    def database_bind_callback(self, properties):
        pass
}}}

We are defining a method in the SETroubleshootServer interface called
database_bind. The method takes one parameter, database_name. Because
there is no @rpc_arg_type decorator associated with the method the
parameters default to being strings.

Because it is a method (as opposed to a signal) it must have an
associated callback to return its values. The @rpc_callback()
decorator is binding this callback defintion to the database_bind
method in the SETroubleshootServer interface. The callback has one
parameter which is defined to be an object of the class
SEDatabaseProperties, this information is provided by the
@rpc_arg_type() decorator.

In summary, when database_bind() is called passing a database name it
will return a SEDatabaseProperties object.

=== RPC calls on the wire, and XML serialization ===

In [source:/src/signature.py] we define the members of the
SEDatabaseProperties object
{{{
#!python
SEDatabasePropertiesAttrs = {
    'name'          : {'XMLForm':'element' },
    'friendly_name' : {'XMLForm':'element' },
    'filepath'      : {'XMLForm':'element' },
    }
}}}

Which simply states the SEDatabaseProperties object has 3 members
(name, friendly_name, and filepath), and when the object is serialized
into XML each member will be an element (defaulting to type string).

On the wire the database_bind() method is encoded as a
header+body. The header states the type of the RPC call is 'method'
and its unique rpc identifier (rpc_id) is '1'. The rpc_id will be used
at method return time to match the callbacks to this particular
call. The header also states the body which follows the header is 181
octets long.

A client calling database_bind('audit_listener') would have a wire
representation which looks like this:

{{{
data=content-length: 181
type: method
rpc_id: 1

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<cmd interface="SETroubleshootServer" method="database_bind" arg_count="1">
  <arg name="database_name" position="0" type="string">audit_listener</arg>
</cmd>
}}}

The body is always an XML document which encodes the RPC call and its
parameters. The top <cmd> element defines the interface and method which
as a pair uniquely identifes what is being called. It also includes a
count of how many arguments follow.

Each child of the <cmd> element is an <arg> element which defines the
parameter name, its position in the parameter list, and its type. The
children of the <arg> element is the value for the parameter, which is
interpreted via the type attribute of its <arg> element parent.

Following our example of a client calling
database_bind('audit_listener') the server might respond with 

{{{
content-length: 373
type: method_return
rpc_id: 1

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<cmd interface="SETroubleshootServer" method="database_bind_callback" arg_count="1">
  <arg name="properties" position="0" type="xml">
    <properties>
      <filepath>/var/lib/setroubleshoot/audit_listener_database.xml</filepath>
      <friendly_name>Audit Listener</friendly_name>
      <name>audit_listener</name>
    </properties>
  </arg>
</cmd>
}}}

At this point the header should be self explanatory. The body says
this is a database_bind_callback method in the interface
SETroubleshootServer. We know from the interface definition
database_bind_callback() has one parameter called 'properties' and it
will be a SEDatabaseProperties object.

When the wire representation is decoded we look up the defintion of
the method and see we are expecting one parameter and it should be a
SEDatabaseProperties object. The type attribute in the <arg> element
says it is encoded as XML, which is how we encode complex objects. The
SEDatabasePropertiesAttrs says we should expect 3 elements (name,
friendly_name, and filepath) all encoded as elements. We parse the
children of the <arg> node and construct a SEDatabaseProperties from
the values we parse.

At this point the we lookup the rpc_id to see what callbacks were
associated with the originial database_bind() call. For every callback
bound to this call we call the callback passing the
SEDatabaseProperties object we constructed from the XML body.


=== Calling a remote method vs. implementing a remote method ===

There is a distinction between calling an RPC method (caller) and
implementing an RPC method (callee).

Objects which want to call a remote method must include somewhere in
their ancestor classes the RPC interface class which contains the
method they wish to call (currently all RPC interfaces are defined in
[source:/src/rpc_interfaces.py]). In addtion the class must derive
from RpcChannel so there is a communication pipe. Recall that methods
defined in the RPC interface class are decorated with things like
@rpc_method(). These decorators are the magic which transforms a
method call on an RPC interface into RPC communication. From the
caller's perspective one only needs to include the interface
definition and then make the call remembering that all methods in a
RPC interface return an async_rpc object which you will need to
connect a callback and/or errback to.

Lets use the following RPC interface example for both a caller and callee:

{{{
#!python

class MyInterface:
    # get_user_data takes a user name as a parameter and returns a
    # UserData object describing the user
    @rpc_method('MyInterface')
    def get_user_data(user_name):
        pass

    @rpc_callback('MyInterface', 'get_user_data')
    @rpc_arg_type('MyInterface', UserData)
    def get_user_data_callback(user_data):
        pass
}}}

As the caller your code might look something like this:

{{{
#!python
class DoSomethingRemote(RpcChannel, MyInterface):
    def __init__(self):
        self.open() # pseudo code for opening channel
        self.user_data = None

    def lookup_user(self, user_name):

        def store_user_data(user_data):
            self.user_data = user_data

        def user_data_error(method, errno, strerror):
	    print "could not find data for user %s: %s" % (user_name, strerror)
	    sys.exit(1)

        async_rpc = self.get_user_data(user_name)       # make the call
        async_rpc.add_callback(store_user_data)         # attach the callback
        async_rpc.add_errback(user_data_error)          # handle errors

}}}

To call the RPC get_user_data() the object derived the channel and the
interface and simply just called the method providing a callback
handler for the return value, which in our example will be a UserData
object.

To implement the RPC method on the remote side a class provides an
implementation of the method which matches the signature (parameter
list) in the RPC interface. That class DOES NOT derive from the RPC
interface! The class just provides a method with the same parameter
list as defined in the interface and provide an RpcChannel for
communication. Then it connects the communication pipe (RpcChannel) to
the object implementing the RPC interface. The connection is made by:

channel.connect_rpc_interface(interface_name, handler_object)

What this does is tell the channel when it sees an RPC on the
specified interface it should call the method in the handler_object.

A callee returns values as if it were the parameter list for the
callback. Thus if the callback had two parameters and looked like
this: iface_callback(foo, bar) the callee would return (foo, bar). If
the callee does not have any return values it should return None. Thus
a callee's return value is always either a list or None.

Thus on the callee side your code might look like this:

{{{
#!python
class MyClass(RpcChannel):
    def __init__(self):
       self.open() # pseudo code for opening channel
       self.connect_rpc_interface('MyInterface', self)

    def get_user_data(self, user_name):
        user_data = find_user(user_name)
	if user_data is None:
	    raise ProgramError(ERR_USER_NOT_FOUND, "user (%s) not found" % user_name)

        user_data = UserData(user_name)
        return [user_data]
}}}

Error returns to the caller are handled gracefully by the Python
exception mechanism. The RPC framework will catch ProgramError's. If a
ProgramError exception is raised during the execution of a RPC
callee's implementation of a method the RPC framework will catch the
ProgramError and automatically return the error code and error message
to the caller via the errback mechanism.

On the caller side this translates to calling
store_user_data(user_data) if the lookup succeeds or calling
user_data_error('get_user_data', ERR_USER_NOT_FOUND, 'user (xxx) not
found") if it fails.

=== Can a single RPC interface provide both caller and callee methods? ===

No. RPC interfaces are one directional. A RPC interfaces defines what
can be called on the interface. If you want both ends of the
connection to be able to call each other you will need an interface
for each end of the connection so there is a seperate calling
interface on each end. One end calls, the other end implements.

=== How do I monitor the state of the connection? ===

It is often necessary to know when a connection has been made, when it
drops, etc. The RpcChannel class provides a callback,
on_connection_state_change. Whenever the connection state changes it
will call you with the new state. Currently the states are:

* closed
* open
* retry
* hup
* error
* invalid
* timeout

== XML ==

=== What is XML used for? ===

XML is used primarilly for two purposes:

* persistent storage of our data objects

* transporting our data objects over a communication link (e.g. via RPC)

This means any object which will be stored or passed in RPC will need
to be able to be serialized into and out of XML representation.

=== Why isn't Python introspection used for XML serialization? ===

Fundamentally there are two approaches one could take to provide XML
serialization of objects:

1. The object is unaware of how it might be serialized, instead via
introspection and recursion objects are broken down into fundamental
types with simple rules on how to encode each fundamental type in XML.

2. The object is XML aware and is in control of exactly what its XML
representation is.

Option 1 is simple and elegant. Unfortunately it's not robust. There
is no way to control what the final XML representation will be,
anything in the object will get serialized, even if its not meant to
be part of its portable representation. Python is very forgiving and
you can attach any data you want at any time by simply assigning to
the object. Such "extra data" might be legitimate internal private
use, or it might get attached to the object by programmer
error. Either way, it's not data which should get serialized into its
portable representation. The portable representation should be very
well defined. Lacking a well defined representation for the object
also means it's difficult to provide defaults for member values, to
validate its structure, guard against injecting superfluous data,
especially if the extra data is malicous in intent, convert between
versions of the representation, etc. Automatic serialization via
introspection is like programming in Basic were everything is a global
variable.

Option 2 is much more robust. There is a well defined structure for
objects. If a value is absent there is a defined default. Values which
are not part of the definition can never be introduced via
serilization. Malformed representations are easy to detect. Values can
be assigned types. Versioning can be used to upgrade and downgrade
representations. The representation can be controlled to take
advantage of XML features and tailor the reprensentation to optimize
for size or speed.

One of the original goals of the project included communicating data
across diverse systems possibly running at different revision levels
making the well known structure of the XML representation
critical. Automatic serialization via introspection fails the goal of
well known structure. There needs to be a definition for the XML
structure independent of the objects being serialized.

=== Where is the XML structure defined and how does it work? ===

For historical reasons the XML structure is defined in
[source:src/signature.py]. Each object which can be serialized
inherits from the class XmlSerialize. When the XmlSerialize class is
initialized it is passed a XXXAttrs dict which defines the structure,
where XXX is the class name of the object.

Each key in the Attr's dict is a member name in the object. When the
object is created every key in the Attr's dict is instantiated as a
member of the object and given a default value.

Each member can specify whether it will be serialized as an attribute
or an element (XMLForm)

Each member can define it's type, at the moment it is either a class
(which includes complex objects, and simple objects suchs as integers)
or a list. Lists are unordered homogeneous collections. For both
class and list members their values are a dict which defines their
properties. For example the 'name' key in a class definition is the
name of the class. The name key in a list defintion is the (element)
name given to every member of the list.

If the 'default' key is present in a defintion dict it is the default
value to be assigned, otherwise the default is None. Actually, the
default value is a function which is called that returns the default
value, this is much more flexible. For instance it can return an
instance of a class.

Because the XML definition allows any object member to be either an
object or a list of objects the serialization process is recursive
yielding surprisingly complex XML representations from simple
definitions.

The basic process for when an object is serialized procedes like this:
For every member in my Attr's dict get the value from the object. If
the value is not None ask it to return it's representation as a xml
node and add it to my xml node, then return my xml node. It's easy to
see the recursion in this. Plus it guarantees only members in the
defintion will be serialized according the definition.

When XML is parsed to recreate an object the process begins with the
definition. For each member in the definition find the XML node in the
tree which matches it, ask that node to convert itself to a python
object by it's defintion rules and then assign it to that member of
the object. Once again the recursion should be self evident. Also note
this process is significantly different than "walking" an XML tree. In
that case the resulting python object would be whatever happened to be
in the XML input. By letting our definition drive the parsing we end
up with Python object which exacatly match our definitions.

== Plugins ==

=== What plugins are loaded? ===

Plugins are located in the directory /usr/share/setroubleshoot/plugins

The load_plugins() function in [source:src/util.py] will attempt to load any file in the plugin directory with a python suffix as a python module.
If the module load results in a python exception a diagnositic message is emitted and the plugin module is removed from
the list of plugins. This allows for the entire system to be brought up even if one or more plugin's are bad.



