.TH "sealert" "8" "20061121" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
sealert \- setroubleshoot client tool

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B sealert
.I [\-b] [-\f] [\-h] [\H] [\-s] [-S] [\-l id] [\-a file] [-v] [-V] [-u] [-p]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page describes the
.BR sealert
program.
.P
sealert is the user interface component (either GUI or command line)
to the setroubleshoot system. setroubleshoot is used to diagnose
SELinux denials and attempts to provide user friendly explanations for
a SELinux denial (e.g. AVC) and recommendations for how one might
adjust the system to prevent the denial in the future.
.P
In a standard configuration setroubleshoot is composed of two
components, setroubleshootd and sealert.
.P
setroubleshootd is a system daemon which runs with root privileges and
listens for audit events emitted from the kernel related to
SELinux. When the setroubleshootd daemon sees an SELinux AVC denial it
runs a series of analysis plugins which examines the audit data
related to the AVC. It records the results of the analysis and signals
any clients which have attached to the setroubleshootd daemon that a
new alert has been seen.
.P
sealert can be run in either a GUI mode or a command line mode. In
both instances sealert run as a user process with the privileges
associated with the user. In GUI mode it attaches to a setroubleshootd
server instance and listens for notifications of new alerts. By
default the setroubleshootd server instance is the one on the local
machine, however one can connect via TCP to another server instance on
another machine. When a new alert arrives it alerts the desktop user
via a notification in the status icon area. The user may then click on
the alert notification which will open an alert browser. In addition
to the current alert sealert communicates with the setroubleshootd
daemon to access all prior alerts stored in the setroubleshoot
database.
.P
The user may elect to tag any given alert as being "silent" in the
browser which prevents any future notification for the given
alert. This is useful when a user is already aware of a reoccurring
problem. Alerts may be deleted in the browser by selecting one or more
alerts and using the menu item to mark them for deletion. The marked
alerts are not actually deleted until the user selects the command to
delete all alerts marked for deletion. This is analogous to many
popular IMAP email clients. The user may elect to hide in the browser
alerts marked for deletion and/or alerts which have been marked as
silent, this helps keep the browser less cluttered.
.P
In addition to alerts provided by the setroubleshoot daemon the "Scan
Logfile" menu item provides the user with the ability to scan a log
file which may contain audit messages, run the same analysis on the
audit messages as the setroubleshootd daemon would done and then browse
the alerts generated by the log file scan. The user may switch back
and forth between "audit" alerts from the daemon and "logfile" alerts
generated by the scan.
.P
sealert may also be run in command line mode. The two most useful
command line options are -l to "lookup" an alert ID and -a to
"analyze" a log file. When setroubleshootd generates a new alert it
assigns it a local ID and writes this as a syslog message. The -l
lookup option may then be used to retrieve the alert from the
setroubleshootd alert database and write it to stdout. This is most
useful when setroubleshootd is being run on a headless system without
the GUI desktop alert facility. The -a analyze option is equivalent to
the "Scan Logfile" command in the browser. The log file is scanned for
audit messages, analysis is performed, alerts generated, and then
written to stdout. In both cases the -H option can be used to cause the
alert to be written out in HTML format rather than the default plain text. 

.SH "LOG FILE SCANNING"
You may ask sealert to parse a file accumulating all the audit
messages it finds in that file. As each audit event is recognized it
is presented for analysis which may generate an alert report if the
analysis was successful. If the same type of event is seen multiple times
resulting in the same report the results are coalesced into a single
report. The report count field will indicate the number of times the
tool thought it saw the same issue. The report will also include a
list of every line number on which it found an audit record which
contributed to the coalesced report. This will allow you to coordinate
the contents of the file with the analysis results if need be.
.P
Log file scanning may be initiated from the sealert browser via the
File::ScanLogFile menu or from the command line via 'sealert -a
filename'. Please note that sealert runs as a user level process with
the permissions of the user running it. Many system log files are
readable by root only. To work around this if you have root access one
can copy the file as root to a temporary file and change it's
permissions. This is a good solution when scanning via the GUI as a
normal user. Or you might consider su'ing to root and run the analysis
via the command line (e.g. sealert -a filename).
.P
The audit records in the log file must be valid syntactically correct
audit messages or the parser will ignore them.
.P
If you use the GUI browser to scan a log file you should be aware the
browser can track and display alert reports from two simultaneous
sources, either the alerts from the setroubleshootd server which is
connected to the audit system or the alert reports from a log file
scan. The View menu has entries which allow you to toggle between
viewing the audit system reports and the scanned file reports.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-b \-\-browser        
Launch the browser
.TP 
.B \-f \-\-fix
Execute the fix command for the avc with the given uuid
.TP 
.B \-h \-\-help           
Show this message
.TP 
.B \-H \-\-html_output    
Ouput in html, Used with the -a or -l option
.TP 
.B \-s \-\-service        
Start sealert service,  Usually used by dbus.
.TP 
.B \-S \-\-noservice      
Start sealert without dbus service as stand alone app
.TP 
.B \-l \-\-lookupid id    
Lookup alert by id, if id is wildcard * then return all alerts
.TP 
.B \-a \-\-analyze file   
Scan a log file, analyze it's AVC's
.TP 
.B \-v \-\-verbose        
Start in verbose mode
.B \-V \-\-debug        
Start in debug mode (i.e. very verbose)
.TP 
.B \-u \-\-user        
logon as user
.TP 
.B \-p \-\-password        
set user password

.SH "GUI MENU"
.TP 
.B Connect To...
Connect to a different setroubleshoot server, browse the alert from
that server's database.
.TP
.B Scan Logfile...
Scan a log file, then browse alert results from that log file.
.TP
.B Save As...
Save selected alerts in file.
.TP
.B Print...
Print the selected alerts.
.TP
.B Edit Email Alert List...
Edit the list of email addresses which receive alerts via email. Also
allows modifying the conditions under which an email alert is generated.
.TP
.B Close
Close the window.
.TP
.B Select All
Select all alerts in the browser.
.TP
.B  Select None
Remove all the alert selections in the browser.
.TP
.B Copy
Copy selected text in the detail pane to the clipboard.
.TP
.B Copy Alert
Copy selected alerts in their entirety to clipboard with proper text formatting.
.TP
.B Mark Delete
Each selected alert will be marked for later deletion.
.TP
.B Undelete
Clear deletion flag from the selected alerts.
.TP
.B Remove Marked Deleted
Permanently delete all alerts marked for deletion.
.TP
.B Hide deleted
Toggle whether deleted alerts appear in the browser list.
.TP
.B Hide quiet
Toggle whether alerts which are flagged as being quiet appear in the browser list.
.TP
.B Show Toolbar
Toggle the toolbar on/off.
.TP
.B View Audit Alerts
View alerts from audit system (more specifically from whatever
setroubleshoot server the browser is connected to). Note, the browser can
display either alerts from the audit system or alerts from a log file scan.
.TP
.B View Logfile Scan
View alerts from the last log file scan. Note, the browser can
display either alerts from the audit system or alerts from a log file scan.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This man page was written by John Dennis <jdennis@redhat.com> and Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux (8),
